---
title: '"Black Swan" - what is it and how to prepare for it'
description: 'They start talking about the “black swan” every time when some kind of global event occurs in the world that no one expected. We understand what is behind this term and whether it is possible to predict when the next'
date: 2022-05-11T11:10:56+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-11T11:08:42+03:00
images:
- AGQ3NUw.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Shutterstock'
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Asya Zuykova
- RBC
tags:
- Trendspotting
- Visionaries
- Futurology as a profession
categories:
- innovation
stories:
---

## What is a "black swan"?

The Black Swan is an event that initially seems rare and difficult to predict, but after the fact often turns out to be quite logical, based on the current situation.

The term itself goes back to the Latinism rara avis in terris, nigroque simillima cygno , which translates as "a rare bird on earth, like a black swan." So they talked about something very rare, almost impossible. The fact is that until the end of the 17th century it was believed that swans were only white, until Dutch researchers first discovered a black swan in Western Australia.

The theory was first voiced by the American mathematician and economist Nassim Taleb in 2004 in his book Fooled by Randomness, and in 2007 he introduced the term itself in the book Black Swan. Under the sign of unpredictability.

The theory was first voiced by the American mathematician and economist Nassim Taleb in 2004 in his book Fooled by Randomness, and in 2007 he introduced the term itself in the book Black Swan. Under the sign of unpredictability.

Taleb, in particular, proposed three main criteria by which an event can be classified as a "black swans":

- surprise, including for experts;
- significant consequences;
- the emergence of rational justification after it happened.

Vivid examples of such events, according to Taleb, are the First World War (which began with the assassination of Franz Ferdinand by Gavrilo Princip), the collapse of the USSR, the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001, and the global financial crisis of 2008.

## Why do they arise?

Here are the main mistakes that do not allow us to predict the appearance of "black swans" in time:

1. **Bubble effect**  - people tend to trust information and opinions that are common in their environment or among those whom they consider to be authorities. At the same time, everything that contradicts this is ignored;
2. **Abuse of mathematical methods in real life.** For example, game theory is often used to predict the probability of winning the lottery or cards. In practice, everything is much more complicated, and even those factors that we do not know about must be taken into account;
3. **Application of hindsight:** when future events are attempted to be predicted based on the past. As in the previous paragraph, the main mistake here is to assume that we know enough to make predictions and that everything will develop according to the same scenario.

## Is the COVID-19 pandemic also a “black swan”?

This opinion is very common. For example, during the Ideas Lab conference in Brussels ,[the idea was voiced](https://rg.ru/2020/03/23/pochemu-eksperty-nazvali-koronavirus-chernym-lebedem.html) that the coronavirus demonstrated the fragility of global peace and the inability of states to act effectively and smoothly. As a result, we were isolated and divided by borders, the economy plunged into chaos, and the WHO issued belated and conflicting recommendations. As befits a real "black swan", the pandemic turned out to be unexpected for the world community (except for the [predictions of Bill Gates](https://www.ted.com/talks/bill_gates_the_next_outbreak_we_re_not_ready/), to which no one listened) and led to global consequences.

## How do black swans affect our lives?

In 2007, coinciding with the release of his book, Taleb [published an article](https://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/22/books/chapters/0422-1st-tale.html) in The New York Times explaining the influence of black swans on our basic understanding of the world:

*“A single observation can refute a common belief based on thousands of years of observations of millions of white swans. All you need is a single (and, as they say, rather ugly) black bird.”*

In other words, such events fundamentally turn our picture of the world upside down, proving that everything on which it is based is a rather unreliable and even illusory construction.

This thesis gives rise to distrust of any expert assessments and forecasts based on well-known principles and formulas. According to Taleb, investment forecasts can be trusted no more than astrology. The very first “black swan” can bring down the market or, conversely, lead to an explosive growth of certain assets, and no one can prepare for this:

*“We forecast oil demand 30 years into the future, not realizing that we cannot know what it will be like next summer. The cumulative errors in political and economic forecasts are so monstrous that looking at their lists makes me want to pinch myself to make sure I'm awake."*

As confirmation of his theses, Taleb cites the events of September 11, 2001 in New York. Then no one objectively assessed all the possible risks, simply because such a development of events seemed the most incredible. An explosion in the heart of New York is the most risky and difficult to accomplish. It was due to surprise that the terrorist operation was a success.

{{< yt id="ieIFtjnBfJU" >}}

Taleb extends the theory of "black swans" to famous personalities who were not appreciated during their lifetime - such as Edgar Allan Poe or Arthur Rimbaud. In his opinion, if we abandoned the usual logical attitudes, we would have time to recognize their talent, which was ahead of its time.

## Is it possible to predict the appearance of "black swans"?

- First of all, Taleb proposes to reconsider the traditional sources of knowledge, with the help of which we form ideas about the world and key events, starting with the media. Journalists often focus on what will definitely interest their audience, ignoring what seems boring or unimportant to them. This creates a distorted and biased picture for us.
- To assess how reality diverges from our ideas, Taleb suggests recalling all the bright events during your life and assessing how predictable they were for you. Moreover, the more unexpected the events, the greater the effect they have.
- He also advises to take a closer look at those facts that you did not know, but which significantly influenced the course of things. It is the unknown, hidden from us, according to Taleb, that influences what is happening the most and leads, among other things, to the appearance of “black swans”. We tend to focus only on known facts when making decisions. For example, in the 1930s, the French erected the Maginot Line, defensive fortifications where the German invasion had already taken place 20 years earlier. A few years later, Hitler easily bypassed it and invaded from the other side.
- Nassim Taleb calls for a break from what we consider the norm, and focus on the most unusual and exceptional. To get ahead of everyone, you need to consider the most unlikely scenarios and offer the most unexpected ideas: “Contrary to the claims of social scientists, almost all important discoveries and technical inventions were not the result of strategic planning - they were just “black swans”. Scientists and businessmen should rely as little as possible on planning and improvise as much as possible, trying not to miss the opportunity that has turned up.

Returning to the events of September 11, Taleb argues that the attacks could have been prevented. To do this, it was enough to install bulletproof doors in aircraft that would be securely locked inside and out. However, it is unlikely that airlines would have taken these costly measures without a real threat. As a result, after the fact, the authorities have increased security requirements in high-rise buildings and tightened the screening of passengers at the airport.

### The Black Swan and the Butterfly Effect

The butterfly effect is a phenomenon within the framework of the theory, according to which even a slight impact on an element of a particular chaotic system can lead to huge and unpredictable consequences. The most striking illustration is the film of the same name, where minor events in the past completely changed the future of the characters.

{{< yt id="g5FFh8PH0mY" >}}

What the butterfly effect has in common with the theory of the "black swan" is that in both cases we are talking about unpredictable, but very significant events. However, the butterfly effect is mainly used in the natural sciences when talking about natural systems, where any subtle phenomenon can occur unpredictably and significantly affect the entire system as a whole. For example, in meteorology, where sudden weather events can lead to climate change or natural disasters.

## What "black swans" await us in the near future?

Back in 2017, Taleb predicted the most likely events that would become the new “black swans”:

### Epidemics

“The media underestimate this danger and rarely make a fuss about scientific publications that bacterial resistance to antibiotics is growing or that new strains of viruses are emerging.”

In 2020, in an interview he added that the high mortality rate from COVID-19 is a direct consequence of the fact that many underestimated the epidemic even when the threat became quite obvious. In his opinion, the removal of quarantine does not mean that we can return to normal life: the consequences will remain with us for a long time.

### Neoluddism

This term refers to the resistance to robotization - by analogy with the movement of the Luddites, who at the beginning of the 19th century broke weaving machines, fearing for their jobs. In a broad sense, neo-Luddism is an exacerbation of ultra-conservative sentiments as opposed to the rapid development of technology and the spread of scientific knowledge. Especially brightly, according to Taleb, this trend will be noticeable in Islamic states.

At the same time, Taleb does not believe that new technologies will turn our future upside down: their effect is largely exaggerated and noticeable only in certain areas: “Of all the technologies that promise to turn the world upside down, I only believe in new energy. Just because I use it myself. My house is fully autonomous and runs on solar energy, and I drive a Tesla.”
