---
title: "How gaming has changed during the pandemic"
description: Video games have long ceased to be just entertainment. Gaming has become a multi-faceted industry that embraces people of different interests and generations. During the pandemic, games have become even more popular. Understanding why.
date: 2021-12-28T16:35:42+03:00
lastmod: 2021-12-28T16:23:06+03:00
images:
- uihlmoG.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Unsplash'
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Alexander Babulin
- RBC
tags:
- Gamification
- Experience Economy
- media streaming
- coronavirus pandemic
categories:
- industry
stories:
---

The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly changed many sectors of the economy, and basically these changes have a detrimental effect on the global market: logistics has been disrupted, the speed of obtaining a service or product has become important for consumers, the mass entertainment industry (and related to the full-time presence of a person) suffers huge losses. But there is one area that has only benefited from endless quarantines, lockdowns and difficult meeting opportunities - the gaming industry. However, to say that it was the pandemic that raised it to the very pinnacle of success is still an exaggeration: for example, in the CIS, video games surpassed cinema in terms of revenue back in [2013](https://3dnews.ru/644278). In Russia, gaming [reached](https://www.tadviser.ru/index.php/%D0%A1%D1%82%D0%B0%D1%82%D1%8C%D1%8F:%D0%9A%D0%BE%D0%BC%D0%BF%D1%8C%D1%8E%D1%82%D0%B5%D1%80%D0%BD%D1%8B%D0%B5_%D0%B8_%D0%B2%D0%B8%D0%B4%D0%B5%D0%BE%D0%B8%D0%B3%D1%80%D1%8B_(%D1%80%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%81%D0%B8%D0%B9%D1%81%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%B9_%D1%80%D1%8B%D0%BD%D0%BE%D0%BA)#.D0.A0.D0.BE.D1.81.D1.81.D0.B8.D0.B9.D1.81.D0.BA.D0.B8.D0.B9_.D0.B8.D0.B3.D1.80.D0.BE.D0.B2.D0.BE.D0.B9_.D1.80.D1.8B.D0.BD.D0.BE.D0.BA_.D0.B2.D1.8B.D1.80.D0.BE.D1.81_.D0.BD.D0.B0_15.25.2C_.D0.B4.D0.BE_2_.D0.BC.D0.BB.D1.80.D0.B4_.D0.B4.D0.BE.D0.BB.D0.BB._.28129.2C5_.D0.BC.D0.BB.D1.80.D0.B4_.D1.80.D1.83.D0.B1..29) $2 billion in 2019, before the pandemic.

The first and biggest jump came during the global lockdowns: in the spring of 2020, [game sales in 50 key global markets grew by 63%](https://www.gamesindustry.biz/articles/2020-03-28-what-is-happening-with-video-game-sales-during-coronavirus). In Russia, during self-isolation, users spent [71% more](https://sber.pro/publication/igraiut-vse-kak-covid-19-izmenil-industriiu-geiminga) on buying games than in the period from March to May 2019. Such rates could not be sustained during the entire pandemic (people stopped spending so much time at home, and all new items were bought), but in general, the global gaming market in 2020 showed a record growth over the previous ten years - by 23.1% ([according to according to Google](https://dtf.ru/gameindustry/957778-sostoyanie-i-budushchee-igrovogo-rynka-glavnoe-iz-issledovaniya-google)). The gaming industry in the United States in 2020 for the [first time surpassed both the film market and the sports industry in volume at once](https://3dnews.ru/1028858/itogi-2020-izza-karantina-igrovaya-industriya-prinesla-bolshe-deneg-chem-kino-i-amerikanskiy-sport-vmeste-vzyatie).

In 2021, growth slowed down: according to Google forecasts, by the end of the year the market size will be $175.8 billion against 177.8 billion after the "explosion" in 2020. But experts suggest that after a slight rollback, growth will continue: the industry will overcome the $200 billion threshold by 2023 and reach $218.7 billion by 2024. We will only play more in the future, there is no reason to believe that the growth of the gaming industry will stop.

The key trend of 2021 is a radical change in attitude towards games, which are less and less perceived as an entertainment that helps to pass the evening, but more and more as a platform for universal socialization, which can lead to the emergence of full-fledged metaverses (vast virtual worlds that give players ample opportunities for creativity and self-realization). Facebook ( now Meta ) and Microsoft announced their metaverses tied to virtual reality systems . However, this is a matter for the future, as long as we can simply say that games, while remaining more or less traditional in their form (at least familiar), are becoming more and more popular.

According to the HP Global Gaming Survey, 49.5% of respondents have been playing games as much since the beginning of the pandemic as before, while 40% of respondents have started playing more. Moreover, 63% of respondents during the pandemic spent time playing with their families. And two-thirds of those surveyed are trying to involve the older generation and teach them how to play computer games. 47% of survey participants spent time playing video games with friends, 31% with children, 23% with siblings, 23% with extended family, 10% with parents, 7% with grandparents. A significant part of the respondents (38%) believe that games are a great way to make new friends. And the majority of respondents (57%) also agree that games help them cope with loneliness.

The idea of ​​gaming as exclusively children's entertainment that separates rather than unites families has long ceased to be relevant. For example, in the EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) region, [the average age of players varies from 18 to 45+ years](https://games.withgoogle.com/reports/#section_blue-island). The collected data shows that the region has the most players aged 25-34 (29% of the total audience) 45+ (26% of the total audience). The smallest segment is players aged 18-24 years, they are only 21%. There were 54% of male players in 2021, and 46% of female players. The average age of players in Russia is 34.9 years. The gender division is absolutely typical for the region: 54% of men and 46% of women.

**Regina Gorbacheva, HP Marketing Director:** “Contrary to the popular belief that gaming is a hobby of young people, computer entertainment is increasingly attracting the attention of people aged 25-40. For them, gaming becomes an option for relaxation from work and daily worries. It is worth noting that video games are becoming more and more popular among girls, which changes the stereotypes about computer games as an activity exclusively for men. This trend is global."

In fact, we can say that games are entertainment that does not have a pronounced gender coloring, which has already become largely family-friendly. Including those that unite families - which contradicts the established stereotypes about games as a "corral" for some special "gamers". In terms of their mass character, games are also already comparable, for example, with the film industry - statistics on this topic are at the beginning of the material.

Streaming has become another gaming-related socialization tool - the time spent by users on Twitch and Youtube [has more than doubled](https://games.withgoogle.com/reports/#section_blue-island) during the pandemic . Users love not only to play games, but also to watch how others play - and to communicate with both players and other viewers. As socializing tools, streams already exist on a par with online games.

The pandemic has affected not only how much we began to play (and watch streams), but also how we began to play. Mobile games were and remain the main in terms of money: in 2020 they accounted for [$90.7 billion in profit](https://games.withgoogle.com/reports/#section_blue-island) — 52% of the global games market. But this number does not correspond to how many people actually play games today on smartphones / tablets, and how many on PCs or game consoles - it's about how much they spend. According to HP research, in the US, the proportion of players using a smartphone as their main platform was 21%, tablet - 6%, game console - 32%, PC - 41%. France: smartphone 17%, tablet 5%, game console 27%, PC 51%. In Russia, we can see an even more serious advantage of personal computers - they are used as the main platform for video games by up to 59% of respondents in the HP Global Gaming Survey, smartphones and tablets - 27%, and the console market in Russia is still not very developed - 14 %. As you can see, [the era of "post-PC"](https://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%9F%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%82%D0%BA%D0%BE%D0%BC%D0%BF%D1%8C%D1%8E%D1%82%D0%B5%D1%80%D0%BD%D0%B0%D1%8F_%D1%8D%D1%80%D0%B0) everything will never come - personal computers remain a key device for gaming.

It is curious that in Russia the PC gaming market even surpasses mobile games in terms of profitability: according to a study by MY.GAMES , in 2020, the revenue of this segment amounted to ₽81.9 billion, while mobile games brought in ₽67.1 billion. so far and does not think to go down. We also note a very small distribution of game consoles in Russia - this very long-standing trend has not changed yet.

**Regina Gorbacheva:** “The seasonality of sales in gaming differs from the seasonality of sales in other segments of the IT market. If in all other categories we see an increase in sales before the start of the school year and on New Year's Eve, then gaming devices are actively sold before the release of any top game. In addition to cool hardware, we have also shifted our focus to creating an ecosystem for gamers, including hardware, accessories, and our own OMEN Gaming Hub software, which will soon be available not only on HP, but also on devices from various manufacturers. It opens up new gaming tools for all users, ranging from a separate interface with all the user's games and customization of settings for a specific game, and ending with a conference and streaming function for a company of up to 16 people.”

We recently wrote about another unusual trend amid the pandemic - the growth in sales of laptops in Russia and, in particular, gaming laptops: their sales grew by 33% compared to 2018, despite the higher cost of gaming models with a generally falling solvency population during the pandemic. This trend is connected both with the need to organize a workplace at home in a “remote” environment, and with the fact that a laptop is increasingly becoming the same “gaming PC”, and not only in Russia - this is a global trend: in the world, the growth in sales of gaming laptops for 2020 was [a record 26.9%](https://www.idc.com/getdoc.jsp?containerId=prUS47570121). The market for gaming monitors grew even more - 77%.

**Regina Gorbacheva:** “The pandemic has contributed to the growth of interest in video games - this is typical for the world in general and our country in particular. The growth of interest in games has led to a sharp increase in demand for laptops and desktops. Moreover, the pandemic has spurred the replacement of outdated devices with modern PCs, as a new generation of video games is designed for high-performance hardware. Also, users preferred more “heavy” equipment, as they used computers, including for video editing, work and resource-intensive entertainment. We predict that in 2022, demand for gaming devices will still outpace supply from gaming device manufacturers.”

As a result, the gaming industry against the backdrop of a pandemic is one of the most stable and fastest growing industries, covering the most diverse segments of the population: gender and age no longer matter as much as 10 or 20 years ago. Everyone plays today. But what they play today - especially Russian gamers - just matches the trends from the past. PCs do not even think of losing ground, with only one amendment - laptops, such as [HP OMEN](https://www.omen.com/ru/ru.html), occupy an increasing share of the market . And in the near future this trend will not fall.


