---
title: "Military operation in Ukraine. The main thing. LIVE NEWS"
description: The European Union agreed to ban the supply of Russian oil by tankers, Erdogan offers mediation to Kyiv and Moscow, the Pentagon calls such negotiations a "logical" step - in the material of RBC
date: 2022-05-31T18:53:28+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T19:51:10+03:00
images:
- 33e2q4s.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Valentin Ogirenko / Reuters'
authors:
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
- Turkey
- Recep Tayyip Erdogan
- Vladimir Zelensky
- negotiation
- NATO
- Ukraine
- Russia
- Vladimir Putin
- Joe Biden
- USA
stories:
- Military operation in Ukraine
---

{{<info>}}
LIVE NEWS by 18.50 Moscow time

- LPR Ambassador to Russia Rodion Miroshnik said that a container with chemicals was blown up at the Azot chemical plant in Severodonetsk. “Preliminary it is nitric acid. The territory of the plant is still controlled by the formations of the Ukrainian regime,” he wrote in his Telegram channel.
- Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said that one of the problems for the safe withdrawal of ships with grain are mines in the Black Sea, set by Ukraine in the Odessa region. “The Ukrainian side says it can clear it in 15 days. But Ukraine does not want the passage of Russian warships through the port of Odessa. And Russia does not want this corridor to be used to supply Ukraine with weapons. We need a mechanism,” Cavusoglu said.
- French President Emmanuel Macron expressed the hope that in the coming days or weeks it would be possible to agree with Russia on the resumption of food exports from Ukrainian ports.
- Canada has imposed sanctions against 4 Russian companies and 22 individuals. The first on the list was Alina Kabaeva.
- In Ukraine, the leading design engineer of the Antonov airline was detained. According to the prosecutor's office of the Kyiv region, he distributed a map of Ukraine, on which part of the country's territories began to belong to neighboring countries. “There is no such country as Ukraine. There is the outskirts of Russia”, “For ours”, “Power to the truth” - such messages were promoted and supported by the suspect, - the prosecutor's office explained.
- Valery Stremousov, deputy head of the military-civilian administration of the Kherson region, suggested in an interview with RIA Novosti that in the event of a referendum in the region, at least 60-70% of the inhabitants would vote for joining Russia. According to him, "the Kherson region will become a full-fledged subject of the Russian Federation in the near future."
- Belgian Prime Minister Alexandre de Cros [said](/news/6295ffa99a79473597853421/) the EU should pause after the sixth round of anti-Russian sanctions. He admitted that agreeing on an embargo on Russian gas would be much more difficult than the embargo on oil, which had been discussed for several weeks.
- Secretary of the Russian Security Council Nikolai Patrushev said that the United States is using the conflict between Russia and Ukraine to its advantage. “Ukraine was only a pretext for the West to openly unleash a hybrid war aimed at weakening and isolating Russia. [These intentions were hatched long before February 2022 and would have been implemented regardless of the actions of the Russian Federation,” TASS quoted](http://www.tass.ru/) Patrushev as saying .
- Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov assured that the Russian Navy would ensure the unhindered passage of ships with grain to the Mediterranean Sea. However, before that, Kyiv must solve the problem of demining ports.
- The European Union [has agreed on](/news/62953e1c9a7947f3ad98cb8c/) a partial ban on the import of Russian oil. The embargo covers fuel transported by sea and affects two-thirds of oil imported from Russia. The ban does not apply to oil supplied through pipelines. The European Union also agreed to [disconnect](/news/62953e939a7947efbad5c09b/) Sberbank from SWIFT.
- While the EU was negotiating the embargo, exports of Russian crude oil by sea increased, writes [Bloomberg](http://www.bloomberg.com/). The agency refers to data from ship tracking systems and reports from shipping agents. It follows from them that from May 21 to May 27, 34 tankers with 25 million barrels of oil left Russian export terminals. oil.
- Deputies of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine dismissed Ombudsman Lyudmila Denisova. According to Strana.ua, citing Pavel Frolov (Servant of the People), the parliamentarians had three main complaints: unwillingness to engage in the exchange of prisoners, unsubstantiated accusations of Russian soldiers in sexual crimes, and frequent trips abroad.
- The Russian Foreign Ministry informed the Ambassador of Montenegro in Moscow, Milorad Shchepanovich, that one of the employees of the diplomatic mission was declared persona non grata. The Foreign Ministry called this a response to a similar decision taken by the Montenegrin authorities on April 7 in relation to Russian diplomats.
- The Kotelevsky District Court of the Poltava Region found two Russian servicemen Alexander Bobykin and Alexander Ivanov guilty of violating the laws and customs of war. They were given 11 years and 6 months in prison.
- The Pentagon sees "logical" resolution of the situation in Ukraine through negotiations, [said](/news/62957bbe9a7947ff0ef8d32a/) the chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff General Mark Milley. According to him, the Pentagon sees the threat of escalation, and therefore maintain contact with Moscow.
- Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan [held](/news/629529699a7947ed821b1cb6/) talks with his Ukrainian counterpart Vladimir Zelensky and promised him to continue to mediate in the negotiation process between Russia and Ukraine. In a telephone conversation with Vladimir Putin, Erdogan offered to organize a meeting of the Russian and Ukrainian delegations in Istanbul, [according to](https://www.haberturk.com/son-dakika-haberi-cumhurbaskani-erdogan-putin-ile-gorustu-3455110) Haberturk.
- The United States may transfer multiple launch rocket systems to Ukraine, but without long-range missiles, writes the Washington Post. Earlier, the supply of systems with missiles that could reach Russia to Kiev was [ruled out](/news/6294c73b9a7947c9e8c429aa/) by US President Joe Biden.
- Residents of the Kherson and Zaporozhye regions now use Russian mobile communications and the Internet, Oleg Kryuchkov, adviser to the head of Crimea on information policy, [said](/news/62958f199a794703e08b5793/). Earlier, the deputy head of the military-civilian administration of the Kherson region, Kirill Stremousov, said that as a result of shelling from Ukraine, an accident occurred on the backbone network, which led to the disconnection of mobile communications and the Internet in the region.
- The index of the Moscow Exchange on the basis of trading on Tuesday fell by 1.8%, to the level of 2355 points.
- On the Moscow Exchange, the dollar rate as of 18:35 was ₽61.43, the euro rate was ₽62.40.

{{</info>}}

## Where is the fighting

{{<info>}}
*At the request of Roskomnadzor, RBC provides data on the details of the military operation in Ukraine based on information from Russian official sources.*
{{</info>}}

On May 30, the DPR authorities reported the advance of the people's militia to Slavyansk and the occupation of the settlements of Dibrova and Stary Karavan (west of the Liman).

On the morning of May 30, the Russian Ministry of Defense reported air strikes with high-precision missiles on two command and observation posts of Ukrainian armed forces battalions, a communications center, and 34 areas of concentration of manpower and Ukrainian military equipment. Russian aviation and drones attacked three command posts and 67 areas of concentration of manpower and equipment. In total, during airstrikes, according to the Ministry of Defense, up to 320 Ukrainian soldiers were killed per day and 47 pieces of weapons and equipment were destroyed.

Russian air defense shot down 15 drones and intercepted nine Ukrainian missiles of the Smerch multiple launch rocket system in a day. Artillery and rocket troops attacked 62 command posts of Ukrainian troops and 593 areas of concentration of manpower and military equipment, as well as 55 artillery and mortar batteries. Four installations of the BM-21 Grad multiple launch rocket system, 46 weapons and Ukrainian military equipment, as well as an ammunition depot near the village of Novomikhailovka in the Donetsk region were destroyed.

An artillery strike was also carried out on a hangar on the territory of the Okean shipyard in the city of Nikolaev in southern Ukraine. The Ministry of Defense reported that this strike destroyed more than 15 Ukrainian tanks and infantry fighting vehicles, as well as five large-caliber artillery pieces.

The official representative of the People's Militia of the Luhansk People's Republic (LPR), Ivan Filiponenko, said on May 30 that the Russian Armed Forces and LPR formations had occupied a bridgehead in the city of Severodonetsk in the Luhansk region. The day before, the head of Chechnya, Ramzan Kadyrov, said that Russian troops had taken Severodonetsk under control.

On May 28, the Russian Ministry of Defense confirmed that the town of Krasny Liman (Liman) in the Donetsk region had been taken under control by the Russian military.

On May 26, Aleksey Arestovich, Advisor to the President of Ukraine, acknowledged the loss of control over the city of Liman (Krasny Liman).

On May 25, Ivan Filiponenko, a representative of the people's militia of the LPR, announced the occupation of the settlement of Toshkovka (southeast of Lisichansk).

On May 24, the [TASS agency](http://www.tass.ru/), citing the mayor of Debaltseve, reported that the Russian flag had been raised over the building of the mayor's office in the city of Svetlodarsk (northeast of Gorlovka).

The head of the DPR, Denis Pushilin, told Interfax that an assault on the city of Liman (Krasny Liman) began in the Donbass, in which Russian units, as well as the people's militia of the DPR and LPR, are participating. According to him, "about half of the city" is under the control of the attackers.

On May 23, Deputy Head of the Ministry of Information of the DPR Daniil Bezsonov said on the air of Channel One that the offensive had resumed in the areas of Avdiivka and Liman (Krasny Liman).

On May 17, a representative of the people's militia of the LPR reported that the units of the republic managed to occupy the village of Orekhovo (east of the city of Zolote). The day before, units of the LPR occupied the village of Novozvanovka (to the north of the city of Popasnaya).

On May 12, the defense department of the LPR reported that the people's militia had pushed Ukrainian servicemen away from Popasna. “The units continue to develop an offensive south of the city and on Lysychansk, cutting off Ukrainian fighters from supply lines and leaving them no room for maneuver,” the message, which was published by the Luhansk Information Center, said.

On May 11, the head of Chechnya, Ramzan Kadyrov, announced that during the joint offensive of the people's militia of the LPR and the Akhmat unit, the settlements of Yuzhny and Voevodovka, the Zarya gunpowder factory, as well as several summer cottages to the north and northwest of Severodonetsk were occupied.

On the morning of May 10, the Russian Ministry of Defense reported that the forces of the People's Militia of the LPR, together with Russian troops, had reached the administrative border of the LPR (west of Popasnaya), in the evening they again commented on the situation around Snake Island. According to Igor Konashenkov, the attempt to seize the island over the past three days resulted in the death of more than 50 Ukrainian soldiers, the loss of four aircraft, ten helicopters, three boats and 30 drones, which became a "catastrophe for the Armed Forces of Ukraine."

On May 5, the People's Militia of the DPR occupied the village of Troitskoye, from which Gorlovka was shelled. According to the Donetsk News Agency, the First Separate Mechanized Battalion of the Territorial Defense of the DPR, with the support of special forces, was engaged in cleaning up the settlement.

On the morning of May 5, the Ministry of Defense announced the destruction of three Ukrainian Su-24, Su-25 and Su-27 aircraft, more than 600 people and 61 pieces of equipment and weapons. A front-line bomber was shot down in the vicinity of Zmeiny Island, where the Russian military shot down a Ukrainian Bayraktar-TB2 drone during the night. In total, by morning, 14 Ukrainian unmanned aerial vehicles were shot down and two rockets of the Smerch multiple launch rocket system were intercepted.

High-precision air-launched missiles at a military airfield near Kirovograd destroyed aviation equipment, a large ammunition depot in the city of Nikolaev, and a fuel storage facility for Ukrainian military equipment in the Zhovtneve region. Also, strikes were made on the forward command post of the 17th separate tank brigade of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, four areas of concentration of manpower and military equipment, as well as on two warehouses of military equipment at a military airfield near Kramatorsk. Russian operational-tactical and army aviation attacked 93 areas of concentration of manpower and Ukrainian military equipment.

The evening report of the Russian Defense Ministry dated May 4 refers to the destruction of four artillery batteries and three ammunition depots in the areas of the settlements of Mirnaya Dolina and Toshkovka. Operational-tactical and army aviation of the Russian Aerospace Forces hit 77 areas of concentration of manpower and military equipment. Up to 310 nationalists and 36 units of weapons and military equipment were destroyed. In addition, a Ukrainian battery of multiple launch rocket systems BM-21 Grad was hit at firing positions.

On the morning of May 4, the Ministry of Defense reported long-range strikes in the areas of several railway stations in Ukraine: Podbortsy, Lvov, Volonets, Timkovo and Pyatikhatka. According to the agency, the strikes destroyed six traction electrical substations on the railways, “through which the Ukrainian group of troops in the Donbas was supplied with weapons and ammunition manufactured in the United States and European countries.”

On the afternoon of April 29, the Ministry of Defense announced the destruction of the production buildings of the Artem rocket and space industry enterprise in Kyiv.

By the evening of April 28, the Ministry of Defense announced the destruction of seven Ukrainian drones over the settlements of the DPR, LPR and Kherson region by air defense forces. Also during the day, three Ukrainian Tochka-U ballistic missiles were shot down in the areas of the settlements of Petropillia and Malaya Kamyshevakha (Kharkiv region). Russian missile troops destroyed the Ukrainian launcher of the Tochka-U tactical missile system.

During the day on April 28, the operational-tactical and army aviation of the Russian Aerospace Forces hit 76 military facilities of Ukraine, including two depots of missile and artillery weapons. More than 320 personnel of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and 35 units of armored vehicles and vehicles were destroyed. Another 38 Ukrainian military facilities, including six depots of rocket and artillery weapons, ammunition and fuel, were hit by high-precision air-launched missiles of the Russian Aerospace Forces.

On the morning of April 27, the Russian Ministry of Defense announced the destruction of hangars on the territory of the Zaporozhye aluminum plant, where a large batch of foreign weapons and ammunition was stored, by Kalibr missiles. During the day, 17 military targets were hit by high-precision air-launched missiles.

Among the targets that were hit by VKS aviation were the Buk-M1 anti-aircraft missile systems in the Slavyansk region and the S-300 in the Nikolaevka region. Rocket troops and artillery on the night of April 27 delivered 573 strikes, during the day - another 309.

On April 26, the Ministry of Defense announced the destruction of two Ukrainian Tochka-U missiles over the settlements of Tokmak and Svatovo. In addition, two launchers of the Buk-M1 and Osa AKM anti-aircraft missile systems were destroyed in the areas of Vesely and Prishib. Two Ukrainian S-300 anti-aircraft missile systems, a Tochka-U tactical missile launcher, and an electronic warfare station were destroyed in the area of ​​the Barvenkovo ​​settlement.

The military department stated that 87 objects of Ukraine were hit by operational-tactical and army aviation: “About 500 enemy personnel, 59 armored vehicles, artillery pieces and vehicles were destroyed, as well as more than 60 militants of the nationalist formations "Donbass".

On April 25, the People's Militia of the LPR announced the occupation of the village of Novotoshkovskoye (to the northeast of Popasnaya). On the same day, the head of the LPR, Igor Plotnitsky, visited the city of Rubizhnoye, the occupation of which was previously announced by the head of Chechnya, Ramzan Kadyrov.

Russian missile forces and artillery attacked 1,053 military targets in Ukraine on April 19, Defense Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said. As a result, according to the agency, 910 strongholds and "areas of concentration of enemy manpower", 106 artillery firing positions, 31 command posts and six warehouses of fuel and lubricants were destroyed.

During the night, the Russian Aerospace Forces attacked 73 Ukrainian targets, including four command posts and four ammunition depots, and destroyed six tanks, nine armored vehicles and a battery of 152-mm Msta-B howitzers. Air defense forces shot down two Ukrainian Tochka-U tactical missiles and six drones.

The Ministry of Defense, during an evening briefing on April 19, reported attacks on regular military facilities in Ukraine. In particular, in the Barvenkovo ​​area (Kharkiv region), air-launched missiles managed to destroy the launcher of the Buk-M1 anti-aircraft missile system. In addition, in the areas of the settlements of Mirnoye, Slavyansk and Popasnaya, 15 armored vehicles were destroyed during air attacks. The loss in manpower of the Ukrainian army in the Ministry of Defense was estimated at 180 people.

On the morning of April 19, the Russian defense department reported that missile troops and artillery of the Russian ground forces during the night struck 1,260 military facilities of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and 13 strongholds of Ukrainian troops were suppressed by high-precision air-launched missiles. Russian aircraft attacked 60 Ukrainian military facilities, including the destruction of two warehouses with Tochka-U missile warheads in Chervonaya Polyana and Balakleya. Russian air defense systems shot down a Ukrainian MiG-29 in the area of ​​Malinovka, and two Tochka-U missiles were intercepted in the areas of Petropolia and Malaya Kamyshevakha.

On the evening of April 18, the Ministry of Defense announced the strike with precision-guided missiles on the 124th Joint Logistics Support Center of the Logistics Forces of the Ukrainian troops in the Lviv region and the destruction of "large batches of foreign weapons." Another large ammunition depot was destroyed near the city of Vasilkov (Kyiv region). According to the military department, in addition, the factory for the repair of warheads of tactical missiles "Tochka-U" in the Dnieper was also destroyed.

On April 18, the Ministry of Defense announced that high-precision missiles had been launched from aircraft at 16 Ukrainian military facilities, five enemy command posts, a fuel storage facility, three ammunition depots, as well as personnel and military equipment concentrated in the areas of the settlements of Barvenkovo, Gulyaypole, Kamyshevakh, were destroyed. Green Field, Velikomikhaylovka and Nikolaev. Aviation also struck 108 areas of concentration of personnel and Ukrainian military equipment.

With Iskander missiles, the Russian military destroyed four warehouses of weapons and Ukrainian military equipment, as well as three enemy manpower concentration areas near the settlements of Popasnaya, Yampol and Kramatorsk. During the night, Russian artillery units attacked 315 targets of Ukrainian troops.

The Ministry of Defense also reported that air defense forces shot down three Ukrainian combat aircraft: two MiG-29 fighters in the Izyum area and a Su-25 in the Avdiivka area. 11 Ukrainian unmanned aerial vehicles were also shot down.

On April 16, the Ministry of Defense announced that the metallurgical plant named after Ilyich had been taken under control in Mariupol.

The military department spoke about the attack with Caliber missiles at the Zhulyansky machine-building plant "Vizar" in Kyiv, where anti-aircraft missile systems and ship-based missiles were manufactured and repaired. The Defense Ministry has warned that the scale of missile strikes against targets in Kyiv will increase in response to attacks and sabotage in Russia.

On April 15, the Ministry of Defense announced that the metallurgical plant named after Ilyich had been taken under control in Mariupol. Before that, the military department was told that more than a thousand soldiers of the 26th Marine Brigade of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, who defended the enterprise, had surrendered.

On April 11, the Russian Ministry of Defense announced the occupation of the village of Kamenka in the Kharkov region. The military department noted that it was "one of the most fortified defense lines in the Izyum region."

On the evening of April 7, the Russian Ministry of Defense reported that Russian units had completely blocked the settlements of Ugledar and Novomikhailovka (southwest of Donetsk).

On the morning of April 7, the Russian Ministry of Defense announced the destruction of four bases for storing fuel and lubricants near Nikolaev, in Zaporozhye, near Kharkov and near Chuguev. The department also announced a complete cleansing of the village of Sladkoe.

According to the Ministry of Defense, on the morning of April 6, Russian military air and ground-based high-precision missiles destroyed five bases for storing fuel and lubricants in Ukraine in the areas of the settlements of Radekhov (Volyn region), Kazatin (Vinnitsa region), Prosyanaya (Dnipropetrovsk region), Nikolaev ( Mykolaiv region) and Novomoskovsk (Dnepropetrovsk region).

By the end of the day on April 5, the Ministry of Defense announced the destruction of two more Ukrainian helicopters in the Mariupol region. The military department believes that they tried to evacuate the leaders of the nationalists. Formations of the LPR continued to fight on the outskirts of the village of Novotoshkovskoye (east of Severodonetsk).

On the morning of April 5, the Ministry of Defense announced the destruction of the Ukrainian Special Operations Forces Training Center in the Ochakov area the night before, which was used, among other things, “to accommodate foreign mercenaries.” Also, high-precision missiles destroyed four fuel storage facilities for supplying groups of Ukrainian troops in the areas of the settlements of Kremenets, Cherkassy, ​​Zaporozhye and Novomoskovsk.

During the night, Russian Aerospace Forces aviation and missile forces hit 134 Ukrainian military facilities, shot down four Ukrainian drones.

On the evening of April 4, the Ministry of Defense reported that during the offensive, the people's militia blocked Novotoshkovskoye, Borovskoye and Metelkino (settlements east of Severodonetsk). Earlier, only a partial blocking of Novotoshkovsky and Metelkino was reported.

The Ministry of Defense also offered the Ukrainian military to lay down their arms and leave Mariupol. They will be able to leave the city from 6:00 on Tuesday, April 5. The Russian department claims that the route has been agreed with Kyiv, and the soldiers who laid down their arms are promised to save their lives.

On the morning of April 4, the Russian Ministry of Defense reported that Russian aircraft hit 14 Ukrainian military facilities during the night, including two command posts, two launchers of Buk-M1 anti-aircraft missile systems in the Krasnogorka (Kirovograd region) and Verkhnetoretskoye (Donetsk oblast), one artillery battery, two depots of rocket-artillery weapons and ammunition, and three fuel depots, as well as six strongholds and areas of concentration of military equipment of Ukrainian troops.

The Russian armed forces also attacked an airfield in the suburbs of Nikolaev, destroying three helicopters of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. In addition, according to the Ministry of Defense, the Russian military shot down six unmanned aerial vehicles over the past night in the areas of the settlements of Nikolaev, Kherson, Kurakhovka (Donetsk region), Industrialnoye (Luhansk region), Velikaya Novoselka (Donetsk region). In total, 392 Ukrainian drones have been shot down since the beginning of the special operation.

According to the Ministry of Defense on April 3, LPR units blocked the settlement of Borovskoye (a village in the Luhansk region) from the east and south. The Mirgorod airfield in the Poltava region was also disabled. Over 100 "nationalists and mercenaries of Western countries" were killed by an Iskander missile strike at the defense headquarters in Kharkov. During the day, the Russian military hit 28 military facilities in Ukraine.

The head of Chechnya, Ramzan Kadyrov, said that Chechen fighters began to storm the plant in Mariupol. Earlier, he demanded that the Ukrainian forces leave the territory of Azovstal, threatening to launch an assault.

On March 31, the Ministry of Defense announced the complete occupation of the settlement of Zolotaya Niva. Russian units "crossed the Kashlagach River and entrenched themselves on a favorable line."

According to the Russian Ministry of Defense, units of the LPR have completed the cleansing of Zhitlovka, advanced 5 km and are fighting on the outskirts of Kremennaya.

On March 30, the Russian Ministry of Defense announced the breakthrough of the enemy’s defense, the crossing of the Shaitanka River, the exit to Velikaya Novoselka and the cleansing from the nationalists of the Golden Niva.

The Ministry of Defense also reported that the people's militia of the LPR continued its offensive against Severodonetsk and was cleaning up the settlement of Zhitlovka.

On March 28, the Ministry of Defense reported that Russian units managed to penetrate 2 km deep into the defenses of the 95th Airborne Assault Brigade of the Ukrainian Army and reach the southern outskirts of Novoselivka.

According to the military department, the People's Militia of the LPR captured the settlements of Ivanovka, Novosadovoye, reaching the Novolyublino-Terny line.

On the morning of March 25, the Ministry of Defense reported that during the night the Russian Armed Forces advanced 4 km and captured the settlements of Batmanka, Mikhailovka, Krasny Partizan, Stavki and Troitskoye.

On the morning of March 24, the Ministry of Defense announced that the Russian Armed Forces had taken full control of the city of Izyum in the Kharkiv region of Ukraine. According to the morning report, Russian aircraft attacked 60 Ukrainian military targets overnight. Near Kyiv, 13 anti-aircraft missile systems of the Armed Forces of Ukraine were hit by high-precision weapons.

On March 23, the Ministry of Defense reported that units of the Russian Armed Forces had advanced 2 km and were fighting on the southern outskirts of Novomikhailovka. The DPR detachments, in turn, fought for the capture of Kamenka and Novobakhmutovka. On the same day, the Russian military [reported](/news/623ad3209a79472d941cc414/) an attack by "sea-based long-range precision weapons" on military targets near the Ukrainian city of Rivne. According to the Ministry of Defense, an arsenal with weapons and military equipment was destroyed there.

On March 22, the Ministry of Defense announced that Kiev had lost control over ten settlements. The Russian military occupied the village of Urozhaynoye in the Donetsk region and advanced 6 km, the forces of the Donetsk People's Republic took four settlements: Glorious, Trudovskoy, Chelyuskintsev Mine and Maryinka. Five more Ukrainian settlements, according to the Ministry of Defense, came under the control of the People's Militia of the LPR: Kalinovo, Popasnaya, Novoaleksandrovka, Stepnoye and Boguslavskoye.

On March 21, the military department announced that Ukrainian military personnel had been ousted by Russian Airborne Forces units from the suburbs of Kiev, who, during the retreat, abandoned serviceable armored vehicles and weapons. The Ministry of Defense did not specify what specific settlement they were talking about, but they published a video with wrecked T-64 and T-72 tanks, tank ammunition, BTR-70, MANPADS, as well as various types of small arms.

On March 20, the Russian military killed more than a hundred members of the Armed Forces of Ukraine (AFU) and foreign mercenaries in the Zhytomyr region, the Defense Ministry reported. Russian forces attacked a facility near the city of Ovruch in the Zhytomyr region, where, according to the Ministry of Defense, the Armed Forces Special Operations Forces Training Center was located and foreign mercenaries were stationed. The strike was carried out by "high-precision air-launched missiles."

On March 19, the Russian military announced the destruction of the centers of radio and electronic intelligence of the Ukrainian armed forces in the Odessa region. The objects were located in the villages of Veliky Dalnik and Velikodolinskoye, the strike was carried out by the Bastion coastal missile system.

On March 18, the Russian Armed Forces reported the destruction of firing points from which the Ukrainian military, according to Defense Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov, fired missiles at Melitopol. Konashenkov said that residential areas of the city were fired upon by Tochka-U missiles with cluster warheads. The missile attack was repulsed by Russian air defense systems, the launch complexes were destroyed by Iskander missile systems. The shelling was carried out from the south-eastern outskirts of the city of Zaporozhye.

On March 17, the Russian Ministry of Defense reported that the People's Militia of the Lugansk People's Republic during the night "led successful battles against Ukrainian nationalists inside Severodonetsk and Rubizhne." The military department said that the DPR units were attacking Marinka, Slavnoe and Sladkoe, advancing 4 km in a day.

The Ministry of Defense reported that on the evening of March 16, an air strike was carried out on an ammunition storage arsenal in the city of Sarny (Rivne region).

On March 16, the Russian Ministry of Defense announced the offensive of the People's Militia of the LPR in the northwest, northeast and east of Severodonetsk.

According to the Russian military department, the DPR forces took control of Mikhailovka, Headquarters, Betmanovo (Red Partizan), Vasilyevka.

The National Guard reported that they repelled an attempt by nationalists to recapture the Kakhovka hydroelectric power station in the Kherson region without loss. The department noted that initially "the Ukrainian side surrendered the station without a fight, the local paramilitary guards laid down their arms and went home."

On the evening of March 13, the Russian Ministry of Defense reported that the People's Militia of the LPR "liberated the city of Popasnaya from the nationalists." The Russian Armed Forces have established full control over the settlements of Pavlovka, Nikolskoye, Blagodatnoye, Vodianovka and Vladimirovka.

The Russian Defense Ministry reported that on the morning of March 13, precision-guided weapons attacked the training centers of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in the village of Starichi and at the military training ground Yavorovskiy. The military department said that it was there that the training and combat coordination of foreign mercenaries, as well as the storage base for weapons and military equipment coming from foreign countries, were located. The strike resulted in the death of 180 foreign mercenaries and the destruction of a large shipment of weapons.

On the morning of March 13, the Ministry of Defense reported that the Russian Armed Forces had established control over the southern regions of the settlements of Blagodatnoye, Vladimirovka, Pavlovka and Nikolskoye.

According to the Russian Ministry of Defense, the People's Militia of the LPR blocked the village of Borovskoye, as well as the eastern and southern parts of Severodonetsk. In addition, the units of the LPR managed to gain a foothold in the northern districts of the city of Popasnaya.

On March 12, the Russian Defense Ministry showed a map of the southern territories of Ukraine, which came under the control of Russian troops and the People's Militia of the DPR. “The armed forces of the Russian Federation, continuing the offensive on a broad front, reached the Novodonetskoye-Novomayorskoye-Yegorovka line. The advance was 11 km, ”the agency said.

On March 9, the Ministry of Defense reported that in the units of the Russian Armed Forces participating in the special military operation, "unfortunately, several facts of the presence of conscripts were discovered."

“Practically all such servicemen have already been withdrawn to Russian territory.” At the same time, the military department indicated that as a result of the attack by the sabotage group of the national battalion, “a number of servicemen, including conscripts, were captured.”

Vladimir Putin instructed to send to the Chief Military Prosecutor's Office materials on revealed cases of the presence of conscript soldiers in units participating in a special military operation. “The materials were sent for verification, legal assessment of the actions and punishment of officials responsible for failure to comply with the president’s instructions,” the [TASS news](http://www.tass.ru/) agency quoted the head of state as saying . Peskov added that even before the start of the operation, all commanders of units of the Armed Forces were instructed to categorically exclude the involvement of conscripts to perform any tasks on the territory of Ukraine. “President Putin was informed about the implementation of this instruction,” he said.

On March 9, the Russian Defense Ministry reported that units of the Russian Armed Forces had taken control of the settlements of Krasnaya Polyana and Stepnoye. The People's Militia of the LPR occupied Toshkovka and Grachevo, the People's Militia of the DPR - Signalnoe, Taramchuk, Elenovka and Trudovoe. In Mariupol, the DPR forces advanced more than 1 km.

On the evening of March 4, the Russian Ministry of Defense reported that the People's Militia of the LPR occupied several settlements: Shandrigolovo, Aleksandrovka, Derilovo, Sredne, Lozovoe. All of them are located to the north or northwest of the city of Krasny Liman. The people's militia of the DPR occupied four settlements: Rozovka, Truzhenka, Znamenovka and Puzatoe. Russian troops occupied several settlements in the Zaporozhye region, including the city of Pologi.

In Ukraine, the flagship frigate Hetman Sahaidachny was partially sunk, the Center for Strategic Communications and Information Security under the government of the country said.

On the night of March 3-4, a fire broke out in the training building near the Zaporozhye NPP. It was extinguished. Kyiv indicates that the main equipment of the nuclear power plant was not damaged. The head of the IAEA, Rafael Mariano Grossi, said that no changes in the radiation background in the area of ​​​​the nuclear power plant were recorded.

The Russian Ministry of Defense claims that the fire at the nuclear power plant was set up by a Ukrainian sabotage group. The military department called the incident an attempt at a monstrous provocation.

On March 3, the Russian Ministry of Defense reported that the town of Balakliya (Kharkiv region) had been “liberated from nationalist battalions.” In addition, Russian troops, acting on the adjacent flank with the DPR units, took control of several settlements in the Zaporozhye region, including Sinya Gora, Sladkaya Balka, Ilchenkovo.

The Russian military department also said that as a result of a strike with long-range precision weapons, a reserve technological radio and television center in the Lysaya Gora area in Kyiv, which was used by the SBU for psychological operations against Russia, was disabled. There were no casualties or destruction of residential buildings.

The people's militia of the LPR reached the line Krasny Lyman - Privolye - the northern outskirts of Severodonetsk. The DPR forces that surrounded Mariupol occupied the village of Vodiane, as well as Sartana and Grape.

On March 2, the Russian Ministry of Defense announced the establishment of control over Kherson, as well as Vasilievka and Tokmak (Zaporozhye region).

In the Lugansk region, the People's Militia of the LPR established control over the cities of Starobelsk and Svatovo. The head of the republic, Leonid Pasechnik, said that the fighting was going on for Severodonetsk. Later, the People's Militia of the LPR announced the occupation of the Novoaydar regional center northwest of Luhansk.

Also on March 3, the Russian Ministry of Defense reported that the People's Militia of the DPR had connected with units of the Russian army moving from the west. The main grouping of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in the Donbass, thus, was cut off from the Sea of ​​Azov.

On February 27, the Russian Ministry of Defense announced the blockade of Kherson and Berdyansk, as well as the occupation of Genichesk (Kherson region).

According to the Russian military department, in the Kharkiv region, the 302nd anti-aircraft missile regiment of the Ukrainian army laid down its arms, “471 servicemen were detained.”

The people's militia of the LPR occupied the settlements of Novoakhtyrka, Smolyaninovo (east of Severodonetsk), Stanitsa Luganskaya. In the DPR, according to the Russian military department, the people's militia forces are completing the defeat of the reserves of the Vostok operational-tactical group in the Volnovakha region.

On February 26, the Russian Ministry of Defense reported that Russian troops had taken full control of Melitopol overnight. On February 25, the military reported that they blocked Kyiv from the western side, as well as Chernigov, Sumy and Konotop.

On the morning of February 25, the Russian Ministry of Defense announced that the military had agreed on the joint protection of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant with the Ukrainian security battalion. Control over the power plant was established the day before.

The military department also announced the occupation of Snake Island in the Odessa region of Ukraine. The Serpentine garrison laid down their arms.

On the evening of February 24, the Russian Ministry of Defense announced the resumption of water supply to the North Crimean Canal. This happened after the landing on the approaches to Kherson. The head of the Crimea, Sergei Aksyonov, said that the water blockade of the peninsula has been completed.

The Russian Ministry of Defense on the morning of February 24 announced pinpoint strikes on military infrastructure in Ukraine. Airfields and command posts in the area of ​​Kyiv, Kharkov and Odessa were attacked.

The military department announced the suppression of Ukrainian air defense systems, the destruction of the infrastructure of Ukrainian air bases.

Ukrainian authorities reported shelling of military units and warehouses in Kyiv, Khmelnitsky, Dnepropetrovsk, Vinnitsa regions.

The border service of Ukraine on the morning of February 24 reported attacks and shelling along the entire border from the Zhytomyr region (bordering only with Belarus) to Luhansk, as well as from Crimea. In Kyiv, they also claimed that Russian units had crossed the border. The FSB reported that all border units of Ukraine left their places of deployment on the border with Russia.

On the evening of February 24, the IAEA was notified in Kyiv that they had lost control of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant.

The DPR authorities reported that they were shelling Ukrainian positions along the entire line of contact.

The Ministry of Defense reported that the People's Militia of the DPR advanced 7 km in the direction of the Volnovakha district center (Donetsk region). There are also fighting in the area of ​​the settlement Stepovoe (to the north of Stanytsia Luhanska).

On the afternoon of February 25, the Russian Ministry of Defense reported that a Russian Su-25 had crashed in Ukraine "due to a technical error." The military department reported that the pilot ejected and had already returned to his unit. In the evening, the Russian Defense Ministry reported the crash of an An-26 with military equipment in the Voronezh region. The cause of the accident was a technical failure. The crew of the plane was killed.

## What sanctions were imposed against Russia

On March 15, the European Union, following the United States, tightened sanctions against Russia. The fourth sanctions package provides for restrictions on trade in iron, steel and luxury goods. The sanctions will affect individuals and organizations, and they also include a ban on access to the services of rating agencies. The exact list has not yet been given, the EU promises that "lobbyists and propagandists" will be included in it. The head of the French Ministry of Finance said that the new sanctions could affect more than 600 Russians.

The G7 countries (USA, Canada, Japan, UK, Germany, France, Italy) have announced a new round of economic sanctions against Russia: Moscow will lose its most favored nation status when trading with these countries. In addition, the United States will stop the supply of dollar bills to Russia and the export of luxury goods. They also ban imports of Russian seafood, liquor and diamonds.

The United States imposed sanctions against Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov, State Duma speaker Vyacheslav Volodin and 10 other deputies of the lower house of parliament. The restrictions included the management of Novikombank and ADB Management, members of the VTB board, Peskov's wife Tatyana Navka and his adult children.

On March 9, the European Union imposed sanctions against 14 Russian businessmen and their families, as well as 146 members of the Federation Council, who voted for the recognition of the Donetsk and Lugansk People's Republics.

EU sanctions included Alexander Vinokurov (President of Marathon Group), Dmitry and Alexander Pumpyansky (TMK), Galina Pumpyanskaya (Sinara), Andrey Guryev (CEO of PhosAgro), Vadim Moshkovich (Chairman of the Board of Directors of RusAgro), Dmitry Mazepin (General Director of Uralchem) (as well as his son, former Formula 1 driver Nikita Mazepin), Mikhail Poluboyarinov (CEO of Aeroflot), Dmitry Konov (Chairman of the Board of Sibur Holding), Mikhail Oseevsky (President of Rostelecom), Sergey Kulikov (head of Rosnano), Vladimir Kiriyenko (head of VK), Andrey Melnichenko (SUEK).

The US, EU and UK have imposed sanctions on Russian President Vladimir Putin and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov. The sanctions imply the freezing of foreign assets. In the case of the restrictions imposed by the EU and Britain, they do not apply to movement. But in the United States, Putin is prohibited from entering, except in cases specifically determined by the American authorities. Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu and Chief of the General Staff Valery Gerasimov also fell under US sanctions.

The United States has officially banned American individuals and legal entities from transactions with the Russian Central Bank, FNB and the Ministry of Finance. Restrictions have also been placed on RDIF and its CEO, Kirill Dmitriev.

On March 4, the United States imposed sanctions against the founder of USM Holdings and Metalloinvest, Alisher Usmanov, press secretary of Russian President Dmitry Peskov, head of Transneft Nikolai Tokarev, billionaires Arkady and Boris Rotenberg, businessman Yevgeny Prigozhin, head of VEB Igor Shuvalov and head of Rostec Sergei Chemezov. In total, 19 individuals (the White House calls them oligarchs) and 47 members of their families were included in the new sanctions list.

In addition, Biden said that the new restrictions will also affect the Russian space program, and a blow to the export of high technologies should slow down the development of the Russian economy, including the modernization of the army.

The EU has banned the sale, supply, transfer and export of euro banknotes to Russia. Exceptions will be made if the banknotes are for personal use or their owners are persons with diplomatic immunity.

On February 25, the EU imposed sanctions against a number of sectors of the Russian economy (finance, defense, aircraft and shipbuilding). In particular, Alfa-Bank, Otkritie and Rossiya banks, Promsvyazbank, the Ministry of Defense and the SVR, Russian Railways, Irkut, Tupolev, and the Progress rocket and space center were subject to restrictions. It is forbidden to make transactions with them, as well as to supply goods and technologies, to provide financial assistance.

The European Union has introduced restrictions on deposits in European banks: they are prohibited from accepting deposits from Russian citizens or Russian legal entities in excess of €100,000 per credit institution. It is also prohibited to buy and sell financial instruments denominated in euros in the interests of Russian individuals and legal entities.

The EU also announced sanctions against the Russian transport sector. These include a ban on the sale of aircraft and aircraft parts.

Canada has imposed sanctions against the Central Bank and several Russian financial institutions: Sberbank, VTB, Otkritie, Sovcombank, Alfa-Bank. Russian Railways, Transneft, Gazprom, the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank, the FNB and individuals fell under the restrictions: State Duma deputies, head of Sberbank German Gref, head of VEB.RF Igor Shuvalov, businessman Yevgeny Prigozhin and others.

On March 3, the Canadian Foreign Ministry announced sanctions against ten key employees of Gazprom and Rosneft. Who exactly fell under the restrictions, is not reported. The sanctions also included former President and former Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin, Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin, Governor of St. Petersburg Alexander Beglov.

Japan, as part of the new sanctions package, will freeze the issuance of visas to some Russians, the assets of Russian financial institutions and restrict the export of a number of goods.

The International Olympic Committee recommended that the federations not allow Russian and Belarusian athletes to compete. Due to the decision of the IOC, the Russians were denied participation in a number of major tournaments. Many competitions planned in Russia were also cancelled. In particular, the Champions League final, the Formula 1 Grand Prix stage, the World Chess Olympiad were postponed. The Russian national football and hockey teams will not be able to play at the world championships, Russian football clubs have been suspended from participating in European competitions.

Britain on March 10 included several Russian businessmen on the sanctions list, including Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich. They are banned from entering the United Kingdom, assets in the country are being frozen.

Andrey Kostin, Alexey Miller, Oleg Deripaska, Nikolai Tokarev, Dmitry Lebedev, Igor Sechin also fell under the sanctions.

The English Premier League has removed Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich from the management of Chelsea. The decision will not affect Chelsea's competitive activities under a special license issued to the club by the country's government earlier, the league said.

## Russian measures to support the economy

An operational headquarters has been set up in Russia to counter sanctions. Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin will head it, Andrey Belousov and Sergei Sobyanin will be his deputies.

The head of government also said that the authorities would impose temporary restrictions on the exit of foreign investors from Russian assets.

On March 10, Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin announced that external management of enterprises with foreign capital would be introduced if they decide to leave Russia. In the event of a suspension of activities in Russia, the authorities will monitor the situation.

The government has decided on a list of foreign-made goods temporarily prohibited for export from Russia. The list includes tanks, turbines, locomotives, wagons, containers, fuel rods, engines and knives.

On March 9, the government announced its intention to exempt citizens from paying personal income tax on interest on bank deposits. The fee will not be charged to contributors on income for this and last year. This tax has never been collected: for 2021, the Russians had to pay it before December 1, 2022.

Mikhail Mishustin announced the introduction of a moratorium until the end of the year on scheduled inspections of individual entrepreneurs and small businesses. The government will also allocate 6 billion rubles. to maintain preferential lending programs for small and medium-sized businesses.

In addition, Mishustin said that IT companies would be exempt from income tax for three years.

The government has submitted a draft law to the State Duma, according to which the Bank of Russia may be entitled to suspend operations and transactions of credit institutions for up to six months. A stop is possible if the regulator deems it necessary to maintain financial stability.

Rostransnadzor has decided to cancel scheduled inspections of organizations that use Airbus and Boeing aircraft.

The authorities are discussing the revision of rates on subsidized mortgage loans due to an increase in the key rate to 20%, sources told RBC. The value of the new marginal interest on state programs has not yet been disclosed to bankers.

Since March 2, it has been forbidden to export currency in cash from Russia in excess of $10,000, Putin signed the corresponding decree.

The Bank of Russia allowed companies to make their own decisions on the payment of dividends and other payments on securities. Non-residents will not be paid dividends.

The Central Bank banned banks from making money transfers from Russia abroad to non-residents who are citizens of countries that have announced sanctions against Russia. The Central Bank sent a letter with the corresponding order to credit institutions on March 1. The ban is valid from March 1 to March 31, 2022. It applies to individuals and legal entities. The list of countries whose citizens are affected by this ban includes 43 states. Among them are Great Britain, Germany, USA, etc.

The Moscow Exchange has established a ban on short sales in euros in the currency and financial markets.

The Ministry of Digital Development has prepared measures to support telecom operators in the face of sanctions. Among them, the weakening of the requirements of the “Yarovaya law”, the ability to change tariffs, a delay in covering roads and small towns with LTE networks.

On March 10, the government submitted to the State Duma a bill on anti-crisis tax measures. In particular, we are talking about exempting the hotel business from VAT for five years, raising the “luxury tax” bar for cars to 10 million rubles, a zero income tax rate for IT companies for 2022-2024, as well as exempting citizens from the payment of income tax on interest on bank deposits.

## What Vladimir Putin said in an emergency address

Russian President Vladimir Putin issued an emergency address and announced the start of a special military operation in the Donbass. “Her [operation] goal is to protect people who have been subjected to abuse, genocide by the Kyiv regime for eight years,” he stressed.

According to him, Russia cannot feel safe and exist with a constant threat from Ukraine. He stressed that the military operation in Donbass will be carried out in accordance with the UN Charter, the decision of the Federation Council and agreements with the DPR and LPR.

## Recognition of the DNR and LNR

- On February 21, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed decrees recognizing the sovereignty of the Donetsk and Lugansk People's Republics. Putin also signed treaties of friendship and mutual assistance with the leaders of the DNR and LNR. He asked the Federal Assembly to ratify them.
- Official Kyiv refused to recognize the decision of Russia and the independence of Donbass. Volodymyr Zelenskyy stressed that Ukraine's borders would remain as recognized by the international community, "despite the statements of the Russian Federation."
- In accordance with the decrees on recognition, Putin instructed to provide peacekeeping functions in the DPR and LPR by the Russian Armed Forces until the conclusion of the corresponding agreement.
- In accordance with friendship treaties, Russia receives the right to build, use and improve its military infrastructure and military bases on the territory of the republics by its Armed Forces, the right to jointly defend the border, and protect its citizens.
- Friendship agreements are concluded for ten years with automatic prolongation for the next five years.
- On Tuesday, February 22, at an emergency meeting, the Federation Council unanimously allowed President Vladimir Putin to use the Russian Armed Forces abroad - in the DPR and LPR.
- Vladimir Putin said that the friendship treaties contain clauses on the provision of military assistance: “By this decision, we make it clear that, if necessary, we are ready to fulfill our duties. <...> I'm not saying that the troops will go right now. And where they will go will depend on the specific situation on earth.”
- The President of Russia also announced the boundaries within which the DPR and LPR are recognized. “We recognized the republics, and hence their Constitution. And there are registered borders within the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. All controversial issues will be resolved at the negotiations between the Kyiv authorities and these republics. At the moment this is not possible. But I hope this will be the case in the future,” he said.

## What was said at the meeting of the Security Council on Donbass

- On February 21, Putin, during a meeting of the Russian Security Council, said that the Ukrainian authorities were not going to implement the Minsk agreements. He suggested discussing the request of the leaders of the DPR and LPR for recognition of the sovereignty of the self-proclaimed republics at a meeting of the Russian Security Council.
- Putin explained that the danger of Ukraine's entry into NATO also lies in the fact that official Kyiv threatens to "recapture Crimea and Sevastopol." This carries the threat of a clash between Russia and the entire North Atlantic Alliance. At the same time, Putin considered that the moratorium on Ukraine's accession to NATO is not a concession. This is the time to prepare Kyiv's accession to the alliance.
- Putin said that he spoke with French President Macron until two in the morning, and he said that there were changes in the American position. “But what these changes are, he could not explain,” the president said.
- During a discussion in the Kremlin, Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev said that the Duma's request for recognition of the LPR and DPR should be supported in order to protect the people who live there. At the same time, Patrushev offered to respond to Biden's proposal for negotiations and "offer him two or three days to stop the carnage."
- A similar position was expressed by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin. According to him, it is necessary to catalyze the issue at the meeting between Putin and Biden, and in the event of the US refusal, to recognize the DPR and LPR, despite the threat of sanctions.
- Deputy Head of the Security Council Dmitry Medvedev recalled his experience of recognizing Abkhazia and South Ossetia. “This helped save the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. It was a lesson for NATO and a number of European countries that this is not the way to deal with Russia. We know what will happen, all proposals for sanctions. We understand that the pressure will be overwhelming, but we understand how to resist it. Bitter experience has shown that it will be difficult, but after a while this tension around our country will subside. Not quickly, but they will get tired of this situation and will ask us to return to negotiations,” Medvedev said.
- Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov proposed to continue the dialogue with the United States on security guarantees, taking into account that the key points are the non-expansion of NATO to the east and the configuration of the deployment of the alliance's troops in Europe. At the same time, he expressed confidence that the West would not change its position.
- Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said that more than 59,000 Ukrainian troops are concentrated near the borders of the DPR and LPR, not counting representatives of nationalist detachments. According to him, there is a threat that nuclear weapons may appear in Ukraine. “We were left with no choice. We must admit,” Shoigu said.
- Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev called for the recognition of the DPR and LPR within the borders of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions until 2014.

## What Putin said in his address before he announced the recognition of the DNR and LNR

- At the beginning of his address to Russians and compatriots abroad, Vladimir Putin recalled the history of Ukraine. “Ukraine was entirely created by Bolshevik Russia. Lenin and his associates did this in a very crude way, by tearing away her own territories. Lenin, with his directives, created Ukraine and pushed the Donbass into it. And grateful descendants demolished monuments to him. Do you want decommunization? It suits us. We are ready to show Ukraine what real decommunization is,” the president said. “The leaders of the Communist Party considered that they had solved the national question. But fraud and deceit are costly. Initially laid mine of nationalism - the right to secede from the USSR - was waiting in the wings. And the leadership of the Communist Party limited itself to frank verbiage about the restoration of Lenin's right to self-determination.
- According to Putin, Russia has helped Ukraine since 1991 with $250 billion in soft loans. Russia took upon itself the repayment of all Soviet debt and fulfilled its obligations. But Kyiv continued to demand Russian assets abroad. “Instead of partnership, dependency began to prevail. Suffice it to recall the banal theft of gas. The West was blackmailed by rapprochement with Moscow, seeking preferences.”
- Putin noted that the radicals over and over again put pressure on the weak government. There was no stable statehood, and the elections became a screen for the redistribution of power between the clans. “Corruption has corroded all branches of government. The radicals took advantage of this. The country was swept by a wave of terror. No one is looking for criminals in Odessa, but we know them by name, we will do everything to punish them.”
- “The radicals pushed Ukraine into the abyss of civil war. Almost 6 million Ukrainians were forced to go abroad in search of work. The dowry from the USSR and the Russian Empire was squandered and taken into pockets. Ukraine itself has been driven under external control, it is carried out through a network of foreign advisers, NGOs.”
- Putin noted that the Russian language is being expelled from all spheres, acts are being bred to combat dissent. In Ukraine, they invented sanctions against their own citizens, TV channels, they are preparing a massacre against the Russian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate.
- In March 2021, Ukraine adopted a strategy for organizing a terrorist underground in Crimea and Donbass. “We know that there have already been statements that Ukraine intends to create its own nuclear weapons. This is not mere bravado. Ukraine has a Soviet technological backlog. The situation in the world with the appearance of WMD in Ukraine will change dramatically.”
- “Western weapons have been pouring into Ukraine in recent months. The command and control system of the troops is integrated with the NATO ones, they can be controlled from the NATO headquarters. The exercises are clearly anti-Russian. Ukraine's accession to NATO is a direct threat to Russia's security."
- “In 2000, during a visit to Moscow by Bill Clinton, I asked how America would react to the fact that Russia would join NATO. He replied that he was very reserved. Well, you don't want to see us as a friend, but why make an enemy out of us? They just don't need a big and strong country. The situation continues to deteriorate, including in the technical sphere. The US missile defense system is expanding, and the deployment of this system in Ukraine is a foregone conclusion. The threat of a surprise strike against our country will increase.”
- “We do not want to believe that Ukraine would be the bridgehead. Many airfields are close to our borders, the Pentagon is developing ground-based strike weapons. If deployed in Ukraine, they will be able to hit the entire European part of Russia, as well as territories beyond the Urals. It's a knife to the throat."
- “In response to our proposals, there were only attempts to divert the discussion to the side. We said that all issues should be considered as a package: refusal to expand NATO, refusal to deploy strike infrastructure near the borders, return of military infrastructure to the situation of 1997. But they are again trying to blackmail us, they threaten us with sanctions, which will be introduced anyway. And a pretext for them can be fabricated in order to hold back the development of Russia.”
- “In the current situation, we have the right to take retaliatory measures to ensure our own security. That is how we will do it."

## New aggravation around Ukraine

- On the afternoon of February 18, the DPR authorities announced attempts by Ukrainian special forces to organize sabotage at enterprises. Among them is a chemical plant in Gorlovka. In Donetsk, they said that the Ukrainian army plans to deliver the main blow on the Svetlodarskaya Bulge in order to cut the lines of communication between Donetsk and Luhansk.
- DPR and LPR announced the evacuation of the population to the territory of Russia in connection with the aggravation. Mobilization was later announced. Those in the reserve should arrive at the military registration and enlistment offices.
- The Foreign Ministries of the DPR and LPR refused Kyiv's proposals to hold an extraordinary meeting of the contact group on the settlement in Donbass.
- Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Dmitry Kuleba on his Twitter page [said](https://twitter.com/DmytroKuleba/status/1494666919110221827) that Kiev does not plan any attack on the republics of Donbass. According to him, Ukraine is counting on a diplomatic settlement of the conflict. He called statements from Donetsk and Lugansk part of "Russian propaganda".
- The Russian authorities called on Ukraine to negotiate. “All Kyiv needs to do is sit down at the negotiating table with representatives of Donbass and agree on political, military, economic and humanitarian measures to end this conflict. The sooner this happens, the better,” Russian President Vladimir Putin said.
- On February 19, US President Joe Biden said that an attack by Russian troops on Ukraine could happen "in the coming weeks" and even "in the coming days."
- Volodymyr Zelensky during the Munich Conference [demanded](/news/621108ac9a7947f316c3b93e/) the convening of a summit of the countries participating in the Budapest Memorandum, which provided for Ukraine's renunciation of nuclear weapons. At the same time, Zelensky said that the return of Donbass and Crimea to Ukraine is possible only by peaceful means.
- Joint Polish-American exercises began in the southeast of the country, said Polish Defense Minister Mariusz Blaszczak. As part of agreements with NATO and bilateral agreements with the United States, about 5,000 American soldiers are now stationed in Poland. Another 4,700 troops arrived in the country as additional forces "due to a security threat."
- On the afternoon of February 21, the press service of the Southern Military District reported that a sabotage group from Ukraine broke into the territory of the Rostov region. To evacuate the saboteurs, two armored vehicles arrived from the territory of Ukraine. They were destroyed, five saboteurs were killed. According to official figures, there are no casualties among the Russian border guards.
- The FSB later reported that the BMPs that violated the border were discovered by border guards. “The group was stopped and destroyed in the course of armed resistance,” the ministry said. Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Dmitry Kuleba [denied](https://twitter.com/DmytroKuleba/status/1495755876422111234) the battle in the Rostov region.
- On the morning of February 21, Pushilin said that near the village of Kominternovo (32 km from the Russian border), the 36th brigade of the Ukrainian army attacked the positions of the People's Militia of the DPR. “There is a battle going on near the border with the Russian Federation,” he said.
- Later, the Ministry of State Security of the DPR reported that it was about a sabotage group of the Ukrainian army, which in the Novoazovsky district (south of the DPR) tried to break through to the Russian border, blew up a missile and artillery depot, but was met with fire.
- The FSB of Russia reported that a projectile fired from the territory of Ukraine destroyed a building in the Rostov region, which the department called "a place of service for border patrols."
- The Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine called the message about the shelling of the border post a provocation.

## What happened before the statements from Donetsk and Luhansk about the impending offensive

Reports that Russia was building up its military presence on the border with Ukraine began to appear in the Western media in October 2021. The Kremlin said that the movement of Russian troops across the country's territory is exclusively Russia's business.

On February 17, the Russian Foreign Ministry published a reaction to the US responses on security guarantees. Moscow stated that there was no constructive response from Washington to the Russian proposals. “In the absence of the readiness of the American side to agree on firm, legally binding guarantees to ensure our security from the United States and its allies, Russia will be forced to respond, including through the implementation of measures of a military-technical nature,” the Foreign Ministry said in a statement.

US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken on February 17 invited his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov to hold a meeting in Europe next week. According to him, he sent a corresponding letter to Lavrov. According to Blinken, these talks may pave the way for a meeting between the leaders of the two countries.

Despite reports about the withdrawal of Russian troops from the exercises to their places of permanent deployment, the West continued to talk about a possible invasion of Ukraine. US President Joe Biden said on February 17 that Russia had a "very high" chance of invading Ukraine "in the next few days." According to Biden, he has information that Moscow is going to conduct a military operation "under a false flag." The Kremlin responded that it was about escalating the situation.

The Washington Post, citing unnamed officials in Washington, reported that the Russian Defense Ministry's statements there are seen as a "ploy" to mislead Western countries.

President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky said he sees no point in direct negotiations with the DPR and LPR. "It's pointless. They just don't solve anything. Why waste time on this? - he said.

Secretary of the National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine Oleksiy Danilov said that Kiev does not see signs of preparations for a full-scale operation by Russia. In his opinion, the purpose of the provocation was to force Ukraine to start “strongly responding militarily”, and then to accuse the Ukrainian authorities of organizing the provocation.