---
title: "Zelensky threatened to reconsider Ukraine's refusal of nuclear weapons"
description: Ukraine initiates a summit of countries participating in the Budapest Memorandum, which provided for its renunciation of nuclear weapons. If the summit does not take place, Kyiv may invalidate the document
date: 2022-02-19T18:13:03+03:00
lastmod: 2022-02-19T18:13:03+03:00
images:
- 1QvwaNw.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Ronald Wittek/Getty Images'
authors:
- Georgy Tadtaev
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
- Vladimir Zelensky
- nuclear weapon
- Budapest Memorandum
stories:
- Military operation in Ukraine
---

Volodymyr Zelenskyy announced at the Munich Security Conference that he would initiate consultations within the framework of the Budapest Memorandum. The broadcast of his speech [is conducted by](https://www.facebook.com/president.gov.ua/videos/443180840884457) the office of the President of Ukraine.

If the summit of the countries participating in the Budapest Memorandum does not take place or does not provide Ukraine with security guarantees, then the document will be recognized by Ukraine as invalid along with the clauses that were signed in 1994, the president said.

“It is entrusted to the Minister of Foreign Affairs to convene [consultations]. If they do not take place again or if there are no security guarantees for our country as a result of them, Ukraine will have every right to believe that the Budapest Memorandum does not work, and all package decisions of 1994 will be called into question,” the President of Ukraine said.

The Budapest Memorandum, signed on December 5, 1994 by Great Britain, Russia, the United States and Ukraine, provided guarantees for the security and territorial integrity of Ukraine in exchange for Kyiv's renunciation of nuclear weapons. The document entered into force in connection with Ukraine's accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. In connection with the removal of nuclear weapons from the territory of Ukraine, the states that signed the treaty assumed obligations to respect the sovereignty of Ukraine and to refrain from using force against it.

After the entry of Crimea into Russia, the Ukrainian authorities have already proposed to refer to this document. In 2016, President Petro Poroshenko proposed to involve the signatories of the Budapest Memorandum in the negotiation process . In April 2019, Oleksandr Turchynov, then Secretary of the National Security and Defense Council (NSDC), said that "nuclear disarmament was a historical mistake" of Ukraine. “The security guarantees given to us are not even worth the paper they were written on, ” Turchynov said .

