---
title: "How Russian cinemas will compensate for the loss of Hollywood cinema"
description: Due to the refusal of American studios to release Batman and Morbius in Russian distribution, cinemas will miss up to ₽5 billion in March, according to the Film Distributor's Bulletin. Losses are comparable to the peak of the pandemic, they say in the Luxor network.
date: 2022-03-01T15:23:01+03:00
lastmod: 2022-03-01T15:23:01+03:00
images:
- Z8mo5CL.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Alexander Kryazhev / RIA Novosti'
authors:
- RBC
categories:
- technology and media
tags:
stories:
---

The industry estimated the loss of cinemas due to the cancellation of Hollywood premieres.

On the night of February 28 to March 1, American majors - Disney, Warner Bros. and Sony Pictures - reported that they refuse to release their new films, explaining this by a Russian special operation in Ukraine. Yes, Warner Bros. canceled the screening of the new "Batman", which was supposed to premiere on Wednesday, March 2. Disney announced the suspension of all its releases, including the cartoon "I'm Blushing", which was scheduled to premiere on March 10. Sony Pictures, in turn, canceled in Russia the start of the release of the Morbius movie comic starring Jared Leto, scheduled for March 24, scheduled for March 24.

Cinemas, although they expected such an outcome, were not ready for such a rapid development of the situation, Anna Tatarenok, a representative of the Luxor cinema chain, told RBC. “Last night, Disney held a press screening of the animated film “I'm Blushing”, and a few hours later announced a boycott and cancellation of rental in Russia. The duration of the restrictions is not yet clear, but presumably they will also affect the sequel to the movie comic Doctor Strange (premiered on May 5) and the animated film Buzz Lightyear (July 21), Tatarenok added.

An even more "painful blow," according to a Luxor spokesman, was the cancellation of "Batman" a day before the premiere. Ticket sales for the most anticipated blockbuster of the spring were opened almost a month before. Pre-sales for "Batman", according to the Unified Automated Information System of the Cinema Fund, have already exceeded 19.5 million rubles. In addition, supportive marketing programs were at the start.

The press service of the Karo cinema chain told RBC that they plan to "work with what is." In fact, for March, the networks had only foreign cartoons Moon Adventures and Bad Boys, the American action movie Mercenary, as well as two Russian comedies I Want to Get Married and Doctor Whistle. So far, no one understands the consequences of the decision of Western film companies, says Alexei Vasyasin, general director of the united network of Cinema Park and Formula Kino cinemas. According to him, there is not even a rough estimate of the March prospects.

The press service of the Ministry of Culture, commenting on the departure of major foreign premieres, announced the possibility of making changes to the release schedule of Russian films, the release of which was scheduled for other dates.

RBC sent inquiries to the press service of the Cinema Fund, the Russian offices of Disney, Warner Bros. and Sony Pictures.


{{< info >}}

## What kind of movies do Russians watch?

In 2021, according to the report of the Cinema Fund, the total box office receipts of domestic film distribution amounted to 40.7 billion rubles, of which 25.6% was provided by ticket sales for screenings of Russian films. In total, 145.7 million tickets were sold for screenings, only 27.2% for domestic premieres.

In the top 10 largest box office films in 2021, there were only two Russian releases: The Last Hero: The Root of Evil (co-production with Walt Disney Pictures) and The Little Humpbacked Horse (co-production with Columbia Pictures).

{{< /info >}}

The recall of the March premieres of the main Western film studios from Russia, according to Alexander Nechaev, editor-in-chief of the Bulletin of the Film Distributor, will be a “catastrophe” for Russian distribution: “These should have been the highest grossing releases of the month. Their total potential is more than 5 billion rubles. This is more than the entire Russian film distribution industry earned in February.” Nechaev admits that there may be some independent releases left, but notes that the Russian market is a major market. The films of the five largest Hollywood studios - Warner Bros., Sony, Disney, as well as Universal and Paramount, which have not yet announced their decisions on further work on the Russian market, account for 80% of the Russian market. Cinemas in March will lose more than 80% of the box office, sums up Nechaev.

Building longer-term forecasts, according to Nechaev, is now difficult. For the stable operation of cinemas, the inflow of money must be constant. In addition, the blockbuster season traditionally begins in May. If Western studios also withdraw these releases, Russian film distribution, according to Nechaev, will collapse: “Cinema theaters will simply begin to close. It is impossible to live on Russian content and releases from independent companies. This puts Russia in conditions of cultural isolation.” The expert also draws attention to the fact that the lack of rental will play into the hands of the pirates.

Financially for cinemas, according to Anna Tatarenok, the cancellation of major Hollywood blockbusters will resemble the situation at the peak of the coronavirus pandemic, when Western majors massively postponed releases. Only the easing of COVID restrictions will help to partially maintain the number of viewers now, RBC's interlocutor believes.