---
title: "Paramount suspended releases in Russia following Disney and Warner Bros."
description: The Paramount film studio, following other Hollywood majors, canceled spring premieres in Russia. The rental will lose the "Lost City" with Sandra Bullock and the second part of "Sonic the Movie"
date: 2022-03-01T18:55:05+03:00
lastmod: 2022-03-01T18:55:05+03:00
images:
- AqkoDLQ.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Paramount Pictures / Global Look Press'
authors:
- RBC
categories:
- technology and media
tags:
- Cinema
- Sony Pictures
- Disney
- Warner Bros.
stories:
---

Hollywood studio Paramount has withdrawn its upcoming spring premieres from the Russian film distribution, Deadline [reports](https://deadline.com/2022/03/sonic-the-hedgehog-2-lost-city-russia-theatrical-release-halted-1234967997/), citing a statement from the studio. The decision, according to the publication, is the company's response to Russia's actions in Ukraine.

The adventure comedy The Lost City starring Sandra Bullock, Channing Tatum, Daniel Radcliffe and Brad Pitt and the second part of Sonic the Movie have been removed from the Paramount spring premiere schedule. The Russian premieres of these tapes were to be held on April 7 and March 31, respectively.

“We support all those affected by the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine, in Russia and in our international markets and will continue to monitor developments,” Paramount said in a statement, quoted by Deadline.

Vadim Vereshchagin, CEO of Central Partnership, which is the exclusive distributor of Paramount films in Russia, called the incident “sad news”: “Cinema is one of the main branches of culture designed to unite people. We understand the situation our cinema partners are in. For our part, we will try to do everything possible to support the industry with Russian content.”

Previously, Warner Bros., Sony Pictures and Disney have refused March releases in the country . The premiere of "Batman" was withdrawn from the rental a day before the release, when pre-sales of tickets already exceeded 19.5 million rubles. The cartoon "I'm Blushing" and the comic book film "Morbius" with Jared Leto will also not appear on the big screen.

The editor-in-chief of the Film Distributor's Bulletin, Alexander Nechaev, [called](/news/621dd72c9a7947daf78c48cd) what is happening a disaster for Russian film distribution. The films of the five largest Hollywood studios - Warner Bros., Sony, Disney, Universal and Paramount - account for 80% of the Russian market. Domestic premieres and releases by independent companies will not be enough to compensate for the losses. The collapse, according to Nechaev, could lead to a massive closure of cinemas.