---
title: "Netflix has suspended work in Russia"
description: The service previously suspended the filming of Russian projects, including the TV series Anna K and Nothing Special and the thriller Zato.
date: 2022-03-07T00:07:22+03:00
lastmod: 2022-03-07T00:07:22+03:00
images:
- t3JV7Tk.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Dan Goodman / AP'
authors:
- RBC
categories:
- technology and media
tags:
- Netflix
- streaming service
- video service
stories:
---

Streaming platform Netflix suspends work in Russia, Variety [reports](https://variety.com/2022/digital/news/netflix-suspends-service-russia-ukraine-invasion-1235197390/), citing a statement from the service.

“Given the situation, we have taken the decision to suspend our operations in Russia,” a spokesman for the company said.

On March 3, it became known that Netflix [suspended](https://variety.com/2022/tv/global/netflix-pauses-russia-projects-acquisitions-1235194200/) work on Russian original projects. Among them are the drama series "Anna K" with Svetlana Khodchenkova and Fyodor Bondarchuk, "The Loop" with Alexander Petrov, "Nothing Special" with Yuri Borisov and the crime thriller "Zato" by Daria Zhuk.

In addition, the company refused to broadcast 20 Russian federal TV channels, the mandatory broadcasting of which is required by Russian law starting from March 1.

Netflix became available in Russia at the beginning of 2016, and a Russian-language version of the service was launched in 2020. The National Media Group (NMG) became the operator of the service in the country. In late December, Roskomnadzor added Netflix to the list of audiovisual services, making it the only international streaming service on the list.

The music streaming service Spotify has announced that the Premium subscription is no longer available for purchase in Russia. Disney, Warner Bros., Sony, Paramount and Universal Pictures canceled their films in the country . Instead, Russian cinemas decided to re-release the films "Brother" and "Brother-2".