---
title: "Novak warns of oil prices up to $300 per barrel in case of embargo"
description: If the European Union refuses to import Russian oil, world oil prices could rise to $300, the Deputy Prime Minister said. In this case, Russia will redirect supplies to the Asian market and pay for exports even at a discount.
date: 2022-03-21T15:30:03+03:00
lastmod: 2022-03-21T15:30:03+03:00
images:
- A0dTYyQ.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Vasily Fedosenko / Reuters'
authors:
- Zhanna Antokhina
- RBC
categories:
- economics
tags:
- oil
- price
- embargo
- Alexander Novak
stories:
---

World oil prices could jump to $300 per barrel if Western countries refuse Russian oil, Russian Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak said at a meeting with State Duma deputies, [RIA Novosti reports](http://ria.ru/).

“If there is a refusal, then oil prices will conditionally be $300, and some say even $500,” he said.

Novak called a scenario in which Europe refuses Russian energy carriers unlikely. If this happens, Russia will diversify offshore supplies so as not to reduce oil production. Even taking into account the discount, exports will pay off due to price growth, the vice-premier said. He said that Russia has already begun to redirect flows from west to east, to Asian markets, [Interfax reports](http://www.interfax.ru/).

According to Novak, the ban on energy imports to the United States did not greatly affect the Russian energy sector. Russia supplied there 3% of the total oil exports and 7% of the exports of petroleum products.

According to Novak, the ban on energy imports to the United States did not greatly affect the Russian energy sector. Russia supplied there 3% of the total oil exports and 7% of the exports of petroleum products.

At the same time, the sanctions led to the disruption of supply chains and caused problems with ship insurance. Russia has faced funding and payment issues and is now trying to resolve them, Novak said. Sectoral sanctions affected oil refineries, the supply of high-tech equipment for processing at refineries, but the authorities control the situation.

Since the end of February, the United States, the European Union and other countries have been imposing unprecedented sanctions against Russia due to military operations in Ukraine. One of the methods of pressure by the authorities of Western countries is the refusal to import Russian oil and gas. The United States has already abandoned energy carriers . Canada and the UK have announced plans to withdraw.

In early March, the European Commission presented an accelerated version of a plan to phase out Russian energy sources. By the end of 2022, the EU plans to reduce Russian gas consumption by two-thirds.

On March 21, EU Foreign Ministers will discuss the possibility of imposing an oil embargo on Russia, said EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Josep Borrell. The Baltic countries are in favor of a ban on oil and gas imports, the German authorities urge not to rush into such a decision due to high energy prices in Europe, Reuters wrote , citing sources.

Press Secretary of the Russian President Dmitry Peskov has already said that the ban on supplies will negatively affect the energy balances of the continent and entail changes in the global oil market. Europe will have a harder time than the US, this decision will "hit everyone," the Kremlin spokesman predicted .