---
title: "The Ministry of Defense announced a strike on military facilities near the Ukrainian Rivne"
description: The arsenal of military equipment and weapons of the Armed Forces of Ukraine was destroyed, where, according to the Ministry of Defense, equipment transferred to Ukraine by Western countries was stored, among other things.
date: 2022-03-23T11:08:55+03:00
lastmod: 2022-03-23T11:08:55+03:00
images:
- esEjGHI.jpg
caption: 'Photo: RIA Novosti'
authors:
- Maria Lisitsyna
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
stories:
- Military operation in Ukraine
---

The Russian Ministry of Defense announced a strike by "sea-based high-precision long-range weapons" on military facilities near the Ukrainian city of Rovno, said Major General Igor Konashenkov, spokesman for the department.

According to the ministry, a large arsenal with weapons and military equipment of the Armed Forces of Ukraine was destroyed in Orzhev, 14 km from Rivne. The arsenal also contained equipment that Ukraine received from Western countries, Konashenkov noted.

The agency also released footage of strikes by Kalibr sea-based cruise missiles and the Bastion coastal missile system.

During the day, operational-tactical and army aviation, as well as missile forces hit 97 military infrastructure facilities of Ukraine. Among them are two launchers and a transport-loading vehicle of the Tochka-U tactical missile system, eight anti-aircraft missile systems, including six Buk-M1 and one S-300. In addition, eight field artillery pieces and three artillery reconnaissance stations "manufactured by NATO countries" were destroyed.

In addition, Russian air defense shot down a Ukrainian Su-24 in the air near Izyum, 16 drones near Rozhin, Karashev and the village of Maxim Gorky.

In total, since the beginning of the special military operation, 184 aircraft and helicopters of the Ukrainian Air Force, 246 drones, 189 anti-aircraft missile systems, 1,558 tanks and other armored combat vehicles, 156 multiple rocket launchers, 624 field artillery guns and mortars, 1,354 units of a special military vehicle have been destroyed. technology.

At the request of Roskomnadzor, RBC provides data on the details of the military operation in Ukraine based on information from Russian official sources.

On Monday, March 21, the Ministry of Defense announced that the Russian military had launched a strike with precision-guided cruise missiles at a training center for foreign mercenaries and Ukrainian nationalists in the Rivne region. More than 80 mercenaries and nationalists were killed in the strike, the ministry added.

Last week, the Ministry of Defense announced a strike from the Caspian Sea by Kalibr sea-based cruise missiles, as well as from the air over the territory of Crimea by Kinzhal aviation missile systems. As a result, the storage base for fuel and lubricants of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in the Nikolaev region was destroyed. In addition, the workshops of the Nezhinsky plant were destroyed, where damaged Ukrainian armored vehicles were being repaired.