---
title: "How Europe responded to the decision to transfer payment for Russian gas into rubles"
description: Russia will switch from the euro and the dollar to rubles when paying for gas supplies with buyers from "unfriendly countries". But some of Gazprom's partners have already stated that they do not intend to change the currency of the contract
date: 2022-03-24T21:10:59+03:00
lastmod: 2022-03-24T21:10:59+03:00
images:
- 2YIrSAx.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Andrey Rudakov / Bloomberg'
authors:
- Timofey Dzyadko
- Veronika Vishnyakova
- RBC
categories:
- business
tags:
stories:
- sanctions war
---

President Vladimir Putin announced on March 23 that payment for Russian gas supplies for export to "unfriendly" countries is being transferred from dollars and euros to Russian rubles. He explained this by the fact that Western currencies, traditionally used to pay for Russian gas, have "compromised" themselves.

Putin noted that over the past few weeks, a number of Western countries have taken “illegitimate decisions” on the so-called freezing of Russian assets: “This “collective West” has actually drawn a line under the reliability of its currencies, crossed out confidence in these very currencies. Both the United States of America and the EU declared, in principle, a real default on their obligations to Russia, and now everyone in the world knows, and suspected in this way, and now they know that obligations in dollars and euros may not be fulfilled.”

The government will prepare a directive for the only gas exporter from Russia, Gazprom, to amend existing contracts, and all foreign consumers should be given the opportunity to make the necessary transactions, and a “clear, transparent procedure” for making payments should be created for them, including the purchase of Russian rubles for Russia's domestic foreign exchange market, Putin said. To do this, the Central Bank and the White House are required within a week to determine the procedure for the purchase of rubles by buyers of Russian gas. Putin stressed that a set of measures to transfer payment for gas into rubles should be implemented "in the shortest possible time."

Not all European partners agree to such requirements.

## How much Russian gas is purchased by "unfriendly" countries

According to the Central Bank, in 2021, Gazprom sold pipeline gas abroad for $54.2 billion. Of these, countries not recognized as unfriendly (mainly Turkey, Belarus, China) purchased it for about $11 billion. According to the investment director "Loco-Invest" Dmitry Polevoy, the countries recognized as "unfriendly" in relation to Russia, in 2021 accounted for more than 70% of Russian gas supplies in monetary terms.

In January 2022 (latest operational data), Gazprom exported 7.146 billion cubic meters to “unfriendly” countries. m of gas in the amount of $5.99 billion, [Interfax](http://www.interfax.ru/) reported based on data from the Federal Customs Service. The sample covers Russian gas supplies to 20 countries: Austria, Bulgaria, Hungary, Germany, Greece, Denmark, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, the Netherlands, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Finland, France, Croatia, Czech Republic, Switzerland and Estonia. The total revenue from Russian gas exports in January 2022 amounted to a record $9.75 billion.

## How Europeans reacted to the transfer of settlements in rubles

**The Austrian OMV**, one of the main partners of Gazprom in Europe, is not going to change the currency of payment for Russian gas, its CEO Alfred Stern said. “I also saw the message in the media. No one has called us yet, and we have valid contracts, there was nothing [about the possibility of changing the payment currency], ” he said in an interview with Puls 24 TV channel.

Stern stressed that OMV will continue to pay Gazprom in euros, as provided for by the current contract: "We have no other contractual basis, I could not do otherwise."

The agreement between the **Polish PGNiG** and Gazprom also does not provide for the possibility of changing the currency in which settlements are made, said its head Pavel Mayevsky. “The contract with Gazprom does not provide for any change in the currency in which payments are made,” he said. But PGNiG does not disclose the currency in which settlements with the Russian company are made.

**Lithuanian Ignitis grupe**, which buys gas from Gazprom (which accounts for less than a third of Ignitis's portfolio), now intends to abandon Russian gas, its spokesman Arturas Ketlerius told BNS, commenting on Russia's plans to convert payments into rubles. “We are not planning payments to Gazprom, so [this] is irrelevant for us, but we will buy popcorn,” he said.

According to Ketlerius, since the beginning of 2022, Ignitis has bought gas from Gazprom only for Latvia and Estonia (gas for these countries was stored in the Inčukalns gas storage facility in Latvia), and not for Lithuania. Lithuanian Prime Minister Ingrida Simonyte, in turn, said that the country could survive without Russian gas, but its purchases continue "due to certain technical issues."

Putin's decision to transfer gas payments into rubles has thrown the **German gas industry into confusion**, Timm Köhler, head of the industry association Zukunft Gas, told DPA on Wednesday. “We received with great confusion the message that Russia wants to pay for gas supplies only in rubles. What specific consequences this will have for the gas trade, we cannot yet predict,” Koehler said. The head of the Ministry of Economy and Climate, Vice-Chancellor of Germany Robert Habek told reporters that switching to rubles in gas payments would be a violation of existing contracts with Russia. “The statement about payments in rubles is a violation of contracts,” Khabek said. He stressed that in this way Russia demonstrates that it is not a reliable energy supplier. The minister intends to discuss the current situation and how to respond to it with partners in the EU.

Germany could pay for Russian gas supplies in rubles, but for this it would have to violate the sanctions imposed against the Central Bank of Russia, Klaus Ernst, head of the Bundestag committee on climate and energy, told RBC. “Yes, it could be, but Germany would have to receive rubles from the Russian Central Bank and thereby bypass its own sanctions. The obligation to pay in rubles would probably also be a violation of gas supply agreements, ” Ernst said .

Europe will not pay for Russian gas in rubles, Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Jansa said on March 24 at a summit of EU leaders in Brussels, [Reuters](http://www.reuters.com/) reports. “I don’t think anyone in Europe knows what rubles look like, no one will pay in rubles,” he said.

The presiding officer of Moldovagaz, **Vadim Cheban**, claims that the company will switch to rubles in settlements with Gazprom from May 1. According to him, the refusal of dollars is prescribed in the agreement between the two companies, which entered into force on November 1, 2021. “According to the current contractual terms, we now have three options for paying for consumed natural gas: euro, dollar and Russian ruble. From May 1, we will have only two options: Russian rubles and euros. There is such a clause in the contract,” he said.

Cheban argues that Moldova should not have any problems in the event of a complete transition to rubles in settlements with Gazprom. “It is not new for us to pay in rubles. Moreover, we had situations before when we made payments in Russian rubles,” said the head of Moldovagaz. At the same time, Moldova has had difficulties with paying for Russian gas lately and has asked for a delay several times.

Gazprom's subsidiary Gazprom Export has already [tried](https://gazpromexport.ru/presscenter/press/2357/?year=2019) to sell gas to Western Europe for rubles through its Electronic Trading Platform (ETP). “This is of great importance: we see that the format of transactions with the sale for rubles is in demand by the European market,” Elena Burmistrova, head of Gazprom Export, said in August 2019. But in 2021, only 7.3 billion cubic meters were sold through this site. m of gas, there have been no deals since mid-October. For comparison: according to the International Energy Agency, in 2021 the European Union purchased 155 billion cubic meters. m of Russian gas (45% of European gas imports and about 40% of gas consumption).

## Are there legal grounds for switching to rubles

The contracts, similar to those signed by Gazprom with European consumers, clearly spell out the procedure for settlements between the parties, said Pavel Ickert, managing partner of the law firm Ickert and Partners. This, in particular, involves fixing the currency in which such calculations are carried out.

Situations are acceptable in which the parties agree on the possibility of making settlements in several currencies, Ickert continues.

The contract may also include a clause on changing the settlement currency by mutual agreement or at the initiative of one of the parties, if for an objective reason payments in the currency fixed in the contract are not possible. But making changes to the terms of the contract unilaterally is allowed only by agreement of the parties, Ickert warns. If no such agreement can be reached, the parties can either terminate the contract or go to arbitration chosen when the contract was drafted, he adds.

The expert believes that the most obvious scenario is the termination of previously concluded contracts or the refusal to renew them. A representative of Gazprom did not answer RBC's question about the time frame for the company to switch to ruble settlements with European buyers.