---
title: The Kremlin allowed the sale of oil "to the east" when Europe refuses to buy
description: If Europe, with its premium market, refuses to purchase oil, Russia will compensate for these volumes with sales in the east, Peskov said. He did not answer the question of how the authorities would respond to countries' refusal to pay for gas in rubles.
date: 2022-03-28T12:22:17+03:00
lastmod: 2022-03-28T12:22:17+03:00
images:
caption: 'Photo: Andrey Rudakov / Bloomberg'
authors:
- Zhanna Antokhina
- RBC
categories:
- economics
tags:
stories:
---

Russia will be able to supply oil to the east if European countries refuse Russian raw materials. This was announced by the press secretary of the President Dmitry Peskov, RBC correspondent reports.

Journalists asked a Kremlin spokesman about the impact of Germany's potential refusal to import oil and coal from Russia on Russian budget revenues.

“You know that there is a market in Southeast Asia, in the east. Of course, falling orders for oil will be compensated by orders from that direction, the eastern direction, ”Peskov replied.

He added that the global market is more multifaceted than the European one. At the same time, the latter is a premium, Peskov noted.

The journalists also asked Peskov to clarify what exactly the government, the Central Bank and Gazprom should do by March 31 on the instructions of President Vladimir Putin to transfer payments for gas exports to "unfriendly" countries - renegotiate contracts or develop proposals for such operations?

“Look, the supply process is very, very complicated, it’s not buying goods in a store ... Now all the modalities are being worked out between departments, with Gazprom, then a clear time frame will be determined,” Peskov explained.

Journalists asked what the Russian leadership would do if Europe refused to pay in rubles. Peskov offered to resolve issues as they become available. “The fact that we will not supply gas for free is clear,” he said.

Russian energy exports to Western countries have been under threat since the end of February. Then the US and EU authorities began to discuss an embargo on oil and gas supplies from Russia in order to put pressure on the Russian leadership and force it to stop the military operation in Ukraine.

In early March, the US banned the import of Russian energy resources, while the UK and Canada announced plans to stop purchasing. The European Commission has planned to cut Russian gas consumption by two-thirds by the end of 2022. In the near future, EU foreign ministers are to discuss the possibility of introducing an oil embargo.

Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak said that the share of Russian energy exports to world markets is 20%. In the event of a ban on hydrocarbons, the gas and oil markets would collapse, he said and warned of an oil price of $300-500 per barrel.

He [considered](/news/623864b39a79475e42dafaaf/) Europe's refusal of energy from Russia unlikely, but said that in this case the country would diversify sea supplies so as not to reduce oil production. Exports should pay off, taking into account discounts, due to price increases, Novak explained. The Deputy Prime Minister said that Russia had already begun to redirect flows from the West to Asian markets.

On March 23, Putin instructed that gas export payments to "unfriendly" countries be converted to rubles due to the unreliability of other currencies. It is assumed that foreign companies will buy rubles on the domestic market. The government, the Central Bank and Gazprom must submit a report on changing the payment currency by March 31.

Moldova agreed to pay in rubles. The authorities of European countries stated that payment must be made in the currency specified in the contract. The head of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen , saw in the translation into rubles an attempt by Russia to circumvent sanctions.

