---
title: "How to get a European start-up visa in the new reality"
description: In the current geopolitical situation, a startup visa continues to work in Europe. Relocation has become more expensive, longer, but still possible. How can I get this type of visa and which countries can I move to with it?
date: 2022-04-21T16:20:51+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-17T12:44:55+03:00
images:
- LeGGNHx.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Shutterstock'
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Natalia Semina
- Yuri Vilensky
- RBC
tags:
- Startup
- New economy
- Foreign languages
- IT
- HR in innovation
categories:
- innovation
stories:
---

**About the expert:** Natalia Semina and Yuri Vilensky, CEO of the Hello Move migration platform.

Anyone over the age of 18 with an active startup or prototype project (MVP) can apply for a start-up visa. In the “new reality”, two countries can be distinguished where this relocation program works stably without constantly changing conditions - Portugal and France. 

## Steps to Startup Visa

The main item in the package of documents for obtaining a start-up visa is a business plan. The requirements for it are the same - the business model described in it must be scalable, practical, and the project itself must be innovative.

Innovativeness involves bringing something new to the country's market, not necessarily with the use of IT technologies. The best option would be to analyze the market before writing a business plan to understand what projects are not in the country.

In addition, business must solve the social, environmental or economic problems of the state. And exactly how the project will solve these problems and what new it will bring to the country should be described in the business plan:

- substantiation of the novelty of the project for the country's market;
- a description of the innovativeness of the project (this may be new approaches to doing business, rethinking the industry, and so on);
- a list of social problems that the project will solve, and an explanation of how exactly it will help solve them;
- forecasts for revenue and staff expansion, development plan for the coming years;
- the amount of attracted investments or the amount of own investments in the project.

Also, the applicant's resume with a brief biography, description of merits and skills must be attached to the business plan.

**The second stage** of preparation for submitting an application to the consulate for a visa is the approval of the project and business plan from special authorities. In Portugal, these are IAPMEI (innovation agency and start-up incubators), in France - authorized accelerators. The applicant must contact them independently.

**Portugal** - you need to get two "ok" from startup incubators. About 40 incubators are registered on the IAPMEI website and select projects. The applicant needs to upload his business plan to the agency's website and wait for at least one incubator to show interest in it. Only after that, IAPMEI staff begin to review the application and give final approval. Further, the entrepreneur must sign an agreement with the incubator within 40 days. You won't be able to apply for a visa without a contract.

**France** — it is necessary to confirm innovativeness. To do this, you need to send a business plan to one of the French accelerators that select and support start-up projects. Their contacts can be found on [the startup visa website](https://lafrenchtech.com/en/how-france-helps-startups/french-tech-visa/visa-for-founders/). Usually waiting for an answer about whether the project is interesting comes within a few weeks. If the project seems promising, the accelerator independently submits the business plan to the directorate of entrepreneurship in France to receive a document that guarantees the novelty and innovativeness of the project.

The standard documents that all countries require are a foreign passport, a passport of a citizen of the Russian Federation, a tenancy agreement for 1 year, insurance, a certificate of good conduct and a bank statement in the amount of 12 monthly living wages of the country.

When all the necessary documents and business project approvals have been collected, the applicant can independently apply online to the country's consulate to obtain a visa. A start-up visa is the basis for obtaining a residence permit, which gives the right to legally reside in the country. After the visa is "on hand", you can enter the territory of these states with a transfer in neutral countries and go to get a residence permit with the same package of documents.

## What countries are ready to offer

Countries provide start-up emigrants with the opportunity to transport a team of up to five people and a family under a simplified system. Also, an emigrant has the right to apply for various subsidies and state support for business on an equal basis with citizens of the country.

**Portugal.** The residence permit is valid for 2 years, it can be extended three times up to permanent residence (permanent residence) and citizenship. Start-up incubators, venture funds, and a state investment company operate on the territory of the country, which can provide funding for development. There are also free economic zones there: if the project operates on their territory, it can qualify for tax incentives or full tax exemption.

**France.** The residence permit is issued for 4 years with the possibility of extension. In every region of the country there are incubators and accelerators that help to put a startup on its feet.

## What the applicant must do

After receiving a start-up visa and a residence permit, an entrepreneur must open an account with a foreign bank, register a legal entity abroad and hire employees - it is desirable that some of them be citizens of the destination country. And you also need to pay taxes and develop your business - everything is the same as in Russia. Portugal has specific deadlines - in 5 years, the company must have at least 5 employees, or the project must earn at least €300,000 in profit.

The success of the immigrant start-up in its new role is monitored by the same authorities that approved its project. They also help the business at first - they suggest how to attract investments, rent an office, find personnel, and so on.

## Extend and stay

In order to extend a temporary residence permit on a start-up visa, it is necessary to document to the migration service that the project has been working and developing throughout the entire time. Evidence can be the expansion of staff, client base, scaling, attracted investments, revenue growth, and so on - that is, everything that the project has done for the economic development of the country. Also, an emigrant must comply with the terms of stay outside the country. For example, in France, the maximum period of absence in the territory of the state is 6 months in 5 years.

On average, a temporary residence permit in European countries is issued for a period of 1 to 5 years. It can be extended up to obtaining a permanent place of residence. In France, permanent residence can be obtained after 5 years of residence in the country. In Portugal, already for the sixth year of residence, they give the opportunity to obtain a passport of the country.

## How to minimize the risk of visa and residence permit refusal

1. Choose the right program and country, soberly assessing your strengths. A start-up visa is not a panacea for everyone who wants to emigrate, it is suitable for those who really want to develop a business.
2. Develop a strategy. To do this, you need to select several countries for applying, compare them and choose the most suitable conditions. It is worth applying not to one country, but to several.
3. Write motivational letters and explain to the migration authorities why you want to move to this particular country. This will increase loyalty to the applicant.
4. For a start-up visa, calculations and an understandable financial model that will contain achievable indicators are important.
5. A startup is about prospects and scaling. When writing a business plan, keep in mind that countries want to see a “new Uber” project, not just another coffee shop.
6. Anything can be written in a business plan, but it is worth soberly assessing the possibilities of realizing promises.
7. Education and business-relevant experience is very important. Attach your diplomas and certificates to the application, which confirm that you are a qualified specialist in the field of startup work.


