---
title: 'Russian venture during the "cancellation": what awaits investors and startups'
description: Over the past two years, the Russian venture capital market has been actively growing and increasingly integrated into the international one. We figured out how the new reality has affected investors and entrepreneurs, and what to expect next
date: 2022-05-13T17:30:44+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-13T17:34:54+03:00
images:
- Zjgq8R1.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Shutterstock'
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Alexey Solovyov
- RBC
tags:
- Venture investments
- Startup
- Russia
- New economy
- Agile
- IT
categories:
- innovation
stories:
---

**About the author:** Alexey Solovyov, venture investor, founder of A.Partners.

The venture investment market in Russia is quite young - it is only a little over 20 years old. During this time, we managed to face several crises, which each time froze its development for the next 2-3 years. Nevertheless, natives of Russia with more than 10 years of investment experience and unicorns in the portfolio were able to take their place in the international market: become serial venture capital firms with several funds under management and earn a decent reputation.

Over the past two years, the Russian venture capital market has been steadily gaining momentum in accordance with global trends: according to Dsight , 2021 was a record year for the Russian venture capital market: the volume of funds raised amounted to $2.4 billion, which is three times more than in 2020. Investors with Russian roots were increasingly integrated into the international market: 63% of Russian-speaking venture investors identified themselves as players in the international market, and a third of Russian-speaking investors invested exclusively in international start-ups. Russian technology entrepreneurs have learned how to launch startups on the international market: not only to conquer new geography with their current business, but also to transfer a working business model to new countries from scratch, attracting rounds at the earliest stages.

In total, at the beginning of 2022, all of the above phenomena illustrated the degree of market maturity and opened up opportunities for Russian-speaking investors to invest in technology companies around the world.

Now, two months have passed since the “black swan” flew to us, although no one really believed in the real likelihood of such a development of events. New economic sanctions cut off many international connections and channels, made many financial transactions impossible, thus seriously affecting the venture capital industry. It is already clear that these measures will be with us for a long time: they will lead to a decrease in the volume of the Russian venture investment market and the size of the Russian technology entrepreneurship market, but at the same time will have a decisive impact on its transformation and, in particular, globalization.

## What are venture investors and startups currently facing?

You need to understand that the Russian-speaking VC community is more than a hundred venture capital firms located both in Russia and abroad. Venture funds invest the money of private investors - wealthy people, and according to our estimates, there are about 2-3 thousand of them. Another segment is business angels who invest their capital on their own or through clubs, and it is very difficult to estimate their number, since not all transactions are public, and in clubs, within the framework of one transaction, several angels are immediately combined by small checks.

## Financial transfers

One of the main negative consequences for Russian VCs is the technical difficulties with financial transfers. Firstly, investors in funds have obligations to transfer money to the fund, and being in Russia, it is quite difficult to organize such transfers. This risk depends on the citizenship of investors, tax status, and the availability of settlement accounts in foreign banks. Secondly, transactions related to Russia are now subject to additional KYC / AML procedures - financial checks in order to identify persons and the origin of capital. The risks associated with investing funds in startups are not so high, since a fund with one or more Russian-speaking managers may be officially registered in another jurisdiction. Managers may or may not be physically in Moscow, but such a fund invests money in startups around the world. In this case, the legal and tax infrastructure of the VC will not be affected by the sanctions. But investments from Russia in international projects are most likely no longer possible, especially these restrictions apply to transfers from the accounts of sanctioned banks.

## Portfolio Companies

The return on investments of venture investors depends on the multiple growth of their portfolio companies, but in the current situation, startups with Russian-speaking founders or investors on board face various difficult situations. For example: difficulties in financial transfers, refusals to cooperate and sign contracts, difficulties in finding personnel abroad and restrictions on access to international services and platforms.

## Attracting next rounds

Venture investments are attracted in a certain amount, depending on the stage of the startup, and for the period during which it is important to achieve the required growth indicators, users, revenue, and conquer a new market. These are the necessary points, after reaching which the startup enters a new level of maturity and attracts the next round of investments and a larger amount. Now startups, due to the Russian origin of the founders or investors, may experience difficulties in attracting capital from international investors. In the long term, the impossibility of raising the round means that the startup will run out of money at some point. Then he will not be able to develop at the right pace, or he will have to urgently cut costs, shrink, while giving way to competitors. Companies that receive a significant part of their revenue in Russia

## but on the other hand

What phenomena are we already seeing in response to all the ongoing events and changes affecting the work of investors and entrepreneurs?

## Global and distributed

Many industry representatives agree that Russian tech entrepreneurs are at a crossroads between doing business in Russia and doing business internationally. Now, in many cases, in order to develop a startup in Western markets, it is necessary to follow the path of relocation, obtaining a residence permit, opening settlement accounts in foreign banks. Those who continue to develop business in Russia will obviously fit into the trend of import substitution. The Russian tech entrepreneur, who already has business in several markets with a globally distributed team, has been forced to become even more global and mimic.

A powerful Russian-speaking IT community is now being formed abroad. It seems that Russian technology entrepreneurs have been squeezed out from everywhere, but the result of this will be the emergence of a global community of founders around the world - the concepts of Founder driven fund and founders for founders will scale.

## Dissolve in the international market

Most likely, some of the small players in the Russian-speaking venture will leave the market, while the most diversified in terms of geography and most closely integrated into the international community will survive. In the end, business will win - all parties are interested in investing in young technology companies: startups themselves, capital owners, and our international partners. Bridges will be found, the necessary business structures will be created through which it will be possible to continue to make international venture investments, although this will be even more difficult.

## Home market

At the same time, in Russia, the remaining product IT companies will be on the horseback and are already planning to increase their business volumes. Against the background of the import substitution policy, the exit from the market of many services and gaps in various niches, a large demand and direct orders for domestic developments, including from the state, are expected. In the near future, we will see a lot of M&A transactions - purchases of small companies. But the key challenge in all this lies in the competition for personnel: against the backdrop of a massive outflow of IT specialists from the country, even IT giants will have to compete for the best personnel. Smaller companies are more likely to be unable to afford such competition, also due to declining chances for investment.

Going back to the beginning: the venture market is the most international of all, and current events will only increase the trend towards the international presence of Russian-speaking investors, the launch of startups with Russian roots, and the geographical distribution of teams.