---
title: "Not only for reporting: we use the electronic signature to the maximum"
description: The coverage of Russian business with electronic digital signatures will approach 100% in the future. How much does ES cost, in what cases is it mandatory and other subtleties of its use.
date: 2022-04-27T12:40:45+03:00
lastmod: 2022-04-27T12:25:49+03:00
images:
- vWaWqGG.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Shutterstock'
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Marat Seleznev
- RBC
tags:
- Digital transformation
- Regulators in innovation
- New economy
- Project management
- Russia
- Blockchain
- How does it work
categories:
- innovation
stories:
---

## What is EDS or EP?

**This is an electronic digital signature.** It is usually referred to simply as an **electronic signature**. There are three types of EP, each of them gives different possibilities.

**A simple electronic signature (SES)** exists in two versions. Firstly, as a set of data in an electronic document (for example, in Microsoft Office documents - as a confirmation of authorship). Secondly, as access codes from SMS or a pair of "login-password" on sites.

**Enhanced unqualified electronic signature (NES)** is created by encryption methods. The owner receives the private and public key of the ES. The first is transferred to him in the form of a token, the second is available to everyone with whom the owner maintains electronic document management. The public key is associated with the private key and allows you to confirm the authenticity of the ES.

**Enhanced Qualified Electronic Signature (ECS)** is a complete analogue of a handwritten signature. It gives the documents legal force without additional conditions. It is created as a NEP, but it must have a certificate in paper or electronic form, the structure of which is determined by the Federal Security Service. The software for working with CEP is also certified by the FSB.

## How much does EP cost?

The cost depends on the type and purpose of the electronic signature. The most affordable option for individuals costs from USD50 per year. It is suitable for working with the portal of public services, registering individual entrepreneurs or real estate via the Internet.

For a business, the cost can range from USD100 to USD 250 or more.

## When is EP required?

For example, for online tax reporting, using online cash registers, selling alcohol or labeling goods.

As the head of the Certification Center "Kontur" Sergey Kazakov notes, 9 out of 10 enterprises in Russia already use ES. But the tool is not imposed on entrepreneurs, he emphasizes.

“Purely theoretically, business can be conducted without a bank account: pay in cash, keep money in a bag. But is it convenient? — says the expert. The same applies to the electronic signature. It is easier to work with it than without it.

## Why is interest in EP growing?

According to Kazakov, business interest in obtaining and using ES is growing even in those areas where it can be dispensed with. The expert explains this for three reasons.

**1.The use of ES leads to a direct reduction in operating costs.** The cost of an electronic document is about two times lower than a paper one, Kazakov points out. Paper becomes more expensive, the cost of printers and postage is added to its price. At the same time, the entrepreneur needs to constantly monitor the process of delivering documents. There is a possibility that due to a mistake by the postal operator, the counterparty will not receive them. Then the papers will have to be sent again.

**2.Thanks to EP, business is accelerating.** Decisions can be made faster, which is especially true in the new economic reality. Previously, enterprises could afford to spend a couple of weeks to sign an agreement with suppliers. Today, if you do not quickly draw up the documents, the goods may not be in the warehouse, they will be sold to someone else.

**3.EP open the way to government orders.** Today, according to Kazakov, business is most interested in public money. “The state pays its suppliers in any crisis. Now it is a safe haven for those who are looking for new clients,” he explains.

## How versatile is EP?

According to a survey conducted by Kontur analysts among owners of small and micro enterprises, 56% use it only to sign and send reports.

In fact, with the help of an existing electronic signature, you can sign documents in completely different scenarios, says Kazakov. After all, one qualified electronic signature of the director can be suitable for reporting, and for trading, and for exchanging documents with counterparties.

It often happens that a business manager starts an electronic signature in order to submit reports. Then the organization has a desire to participate in the auction. The person who is responsible for this may not know that the manager already has an ES, and invites him to get another signature - already for procurement. In fact, the manager can use the same ES for both reporting and signing a contract.

“In reality, the scope of such a signature is not limited in any way. Only knowledge about EP is limited. Our task is to remove barriers, to say that this is a universal tool that will come in handy in many places,” comments Kazakov.

However, if the signature is in the name of a tender specialist, then you should not give it to an accountant - this is the same as giving him a personal bank card. It is better to have your own signature for each employee or determine who will sign all documents.

In addition, ES may differ in additional services and specifications. So, along with an electronic signature for bidding, consultations of procurement experts can go.

## In what scenarios can the same EP be used?

With the help of EP, you can implement a lot of different scenarios.

- **Participate in electronic auctions.** To work with public procurement under 44-FZ, 223-FZ and commercial tenders , a QEP is required . Without it, a business will not be able to get a government contract or become a contractor for a large company, such as Russian Railways or Rosneft. A signature will be required at all stages of the auction - from registering in the Unified Information System and submitting an application for participation to offering your price at the auction and signing a contract.
- **Translate document flow with government agencies into electronic form.** With the help of ES, you can not only submit reports, but also send requests to various government agencies. For example, to clarify information about taxes or other issues. For businesses, this is important given that regulatory requirements can change rapidly.
- **Find new contractors and sign contracts with them.** If there are problems with deliveries from abroad, foreign customers have suspended cooperation, or you just want to find new partners, you can always contact organizations from other regions. Today, many negotiations are conducted online, and the necessary documents are sealed using electronic signatures. By agreement between themselves, the parties can use any type of electronic signature. But the guarantor of the legal force of electronic documents (without signing additional agreements) is only the CEP.
- **File a lawsuit.** This can be done using the same ES that was issued for reporting. In the new reality, businesses will increasingly face the need to protect their rights or deal with a difficult situation with a supplier or customer, suggests Kazakov.
- **Get banking services.** With the help of CEP, a company can remotely receive bank guarantees, and an individual can apply for an online loan.
- **Work with contractors remotely.** The EP helps in registering an employee both full-time and part-time under a GPC agreement. A qualified signature allows you to formalize an employment relationship.
- **Register real estate online.** Real assets can be sold or bought, the transaction is carried out with the help of a qualified electronic signature through Rosreestr. An electronic signature also makes it possible to request information about an object of interest - to check its legal purity in order to insure against risks.

## In what new areas will EP be used?

Gradually, the coverage of business with electronic digital signatures will tend to 100%, Kazakov expects. More and more people and organizations will begin to use EP to solve everyday problems.

According to the expert, in 2022, personnel electronic document management will continue to develop in Russia. “We see how much more convenient and efficient it is to sign all personnel documents – from an employment contract to orders and instructions, regulations – electronically. It’s faster, it doesn’t overwhelm the HR department with unnecessary paperwork,” says Kazakov.

Another promising area is the self-employed. They have a constant need to exchange documents, acts, contracts with buyers. They often work remotely. The easier it is for them to communicate with customers, the better they feel. At the same time, the self-employed do not need a CEP; an unqualified electronic signature is also suitable for them as a simpler tool for individuals, the head of the certification center notes.

“We are already seeing this trend. I think that all economically active physicists within three to five years will have some kind of electronic signature, qualified or unskilled, depending on their type of activity,” says Kazakov.

## Will EPs rise in price in the foreseeable future?

Sharp jumps in tariffs, such as an increase in prices for computers and equipment, are not worth waiting for, they are sure in Kontur. Moreover, the state is trying to make ES more accessible to businesses. So, for the head of a company or individual entrepreneur, the tax authority will issue a signature for free. You will have to pay only for a secure medium (token) and a special program - a cryptographic provider.

## How will the sanctions affect the work of the EP?

Tokens are used to record digital signature certificates. They are made in Russia by several organizations. “They are now working to rebuild and rebuild supply chains. While the forecast is optimistic. Everyone says that there will be tokens in the country. We do not see any big risks,” Kazakov concludes.
