---
title: "How and why in Spain they revive the irrigation system of the 8th century"
description: To adapt to climate change, farmers in Spanish Andalusia are restoring a water canal system that is more than 1,000 years old. They are assisted by researchers from the University of Granada
date: 2022-05-10T09:00:37+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-06T18:33:50+03:00
images:
- VrJ7UUj.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Wikimedia Commons'
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Semen Bashkirov
- RBC
tags:
- organic farming
- Climate change
- Cultural trends
- Sustainable development
- Resource scarcity
- Ecofriendly
- shorts
categories:
- economy
stories:
---

## Muslim Green Revolution

When the Arabs and Berbers colonized Spain in the early 8th century, they [brought](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2022/apr/11/ancient-water-system-restore-spain-sierra-nevada-aoe) with them technologies that had been used in the Middle East for hundreds of years. One of them was "asekiah" - irrigation canals, the network of which stretched for thousands of kilometers. Their technology is ingeniously simple: the channel begins at an altitude of about 1.8 km above sea level in the Sierra Nevada mountain range. When the snow melts from the peaks, water flows through it to nearby villages.

José María Martín Chivantos, project manager for the rebuilding of the Acequias, [emphasizes](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2022/apr/11/ancient-water-system-restore-spain-sierra-nevada-aoe) : “The Islamic Agrarian Revolution was also the first ‘green’ [revolution]. Muslims brought with them the knowledge and technology of using water, soil, snow and plants. They have completely changed the way water is handled in the Mediterranean.”

## Benefits of acecia

The asekiya system existed until the 1980s, and then ceased to be used due to the gradual decline in the population in the region. Decades later, the Spaniards began to restore it: local farmers, scientists, and politicians understand the importance of any additional irrigation of fields. Especially when Spain [is plagued by](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2021/nov/16/farmers-are-digging-their-own-graves-true-cost-of-growing-food-in-spains-arid-south) regular droughts due to climate change. Rain in the Mediterranean is rare and occurs in short shower bursts, so most of the water goes into rivers and the sea. Asekii control its flow and reduce runoff, while simultaneously saturating the earth and replenishing aquifers. This word is called aquifers - piedmont layers of earth from a rock that does not let water through, but retains it.

## The ingenious simplicity of asecii

Chivantos [calls](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2022/apr/11/ancient-water-system-restore-spain-sierra-nevada-aoe) it "the sowing of water". Instead of going to specific plants, it is stored under the mountains and can be used during times of drought. Geologist Sergio Martos-Rosillo, a participant in the project, says: “The asecia system is extremely efficient, the aquifers replenish themselves, and no more technology is needed. It has been used in Spain for over a millennium, which only proves its adaptability. The acecia system is much easier to follow than the dam. Moreover, it is many times more resilient to climate change.”

## Recovery of lost technologies

According to Chivantos, one of the main challenges of the project was the recovery of collective knowledge that was not written down. After the expulsion of the Muslims towards the end of the 15th century during the Reconquista, most of the data on the structure of the asekii was eventually lost. The professor [emphasizes](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2022/apr/11/ancient-water-system-restore-spain-sierra-nevada-aoe) : “Many do not believe that the peasants could create something so complex. The Romans built aqueducts and other hydraulic structures, but this was always necessary for the glory of the state and empire. The Asekias were made so that ordinary people could survive.”


