---
title: 'How video game development has changed in the last 10 years'
description: Since the early 2010s, video games have developed into a significant sector for the entire entertainment industry. Major changes have also affected developers. We talk about what happened in game development over 10 years.
date: 2022-05-11T11:40:28+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-11T11:23:48+03:00
images:
- McjvGKV.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Unsplash'
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Anastasia Moroshkina
- RBC
tags:
- Cultural trends
- Blockchain
- Futurology in art
categories:
- innovation
stories:
---

## Development of the sphere

Over the past decade, independent game development has grown from a niche market into a huge global sphere. Technological development has given 4K resolution and smoother performance. In 2010, Call of Duty: Black Ops took up about 12 GB of hard drive space. In 2019, the weight of his Call of Duty: Modern Warfare remake  is 175 GB. Outside of gaming, cultural changes, the rise of social media and streaming platforms, have affected the industry in various ways. Brenda Romero, the author of several games and a recognized veteran of game development who has worked in it for 38 years, says that all the changes in the last 10 years are incredible. According to her, the pace of change has accelerated markedly.

## The evolution of indie games

Unity is a game engine that appeared in 2005 as an accessible and understandable option for developers who wanted to make games for MacOS. Over the next few years, its use expanded to more and more platforms, from smartphones to the Nintendo Wii. Its free version allows anyone with a computer to try their hand at game development. Romero [points out](https://mashable.com/article/video-game-development-over-the-decade): “Unity has made game development more accessible to a lot of people. We are now seeing a huge increase in the number of games from independent developers, and many of them are made on Unity.”

## Social change

John Hight is currently an executive producer on World of Warcraft . He has been with Blizzard since 2011, but began his career in the industry in the 1990s, working on popular series and helping to publish independent games. He [says](https://mashable.com/article/video-game-development-over-the-decade): “The indie games movement that started 10 years ago brought new, fresh blood to the industry. It has made a big difference in how we innovate.”

In 2010, Hite was director of product development at Sony Studios and led the release of God of War 3 . This game is the pinnacle of brutal masculinity in video games. The protagonist, Kratos, tears apart everyone in his path to end the reign of the Olympian gods. In 2018, the series got a new start. Steeped in Norse mythology, the new God of War begins with the death of Kratos' wife. Throughout the game, he gets to know his son Atreus better as they work together towards their goal of scattering their mother's ashes on the highest peak in all the worlds. These two plots contrast sharply with each other, showing not only the development of a particular character, but the maturation and growth of the industry as a whole.

## Rising importance of streamers

At the beginning of the decade, there were few ways to get news and impressions of other players about upcoming games - only a few websites and magazines. Many sites did not have a suitable section, and some portals simply did not exist. The industry's reliance on advertising and editorial columns put a lot of pressure on developers.

Everything changed with the advent of Twitch and YouTube. Romero [emphasizes](https://mashable.com/article/video-game-development-over-the-decade): “This is still new to me. Most developers have spent their lives behind screens without interacting with people. But now, in order to promote games, many people are creating streaming studios in their offices.”

## New Ways to Profit

In the early 2010s, it seemed like a crazy idea for developers to release a free game and hope someone made an in-app purchase. Brenda Romero [explain](https://mashable.com/article/video-game-development-over-the-decade) : “It turns out that free games attract a lot of people. That said, there are ways to encourage them to pay for content, whether it's targeting those who like to spend or adding loot boxes - boxes (or other abstract things) that contain random useful items inside. Players have to pay for the opportunity to get them.” However, the popularity of this technique has sparked discussion of its ethical implications, as some games have begun to resemble casinos.

## Diversity and better working conditions

The industry is growing and developing. The developers believe that it will have a bright future filled with innovation and creativity. When Brenda Romero was working on a game for an unnamed company in 2010, the subject of crunch came up in the office. This term refers to an intensive development period, which is characterized by increased working hours and almost no days off. “I remember going to a meeting and they [told me](https://mashable.com/article/video-game-development-over-the-decade), ‘We are going to work through January and February non-stop,’” she said. “And I asked, ‘Why? That is unnecessary". Now she sees the crunch-praising mentality go away. John High agrees. As the industry matures, he says, people are discovering that there's more to life than just making games 18 hours a day.

Other experts [argue](https://mashable.com/article/video-game-development-over-the-decade) that the growth of diversity in the gaming industry is improving conditions in the workplace. Gamedev is no longer a boys' club with a "work to death" vibe, and social media is helping to publicize the issue of working conditions. According to developer Tommy Refenes, "Now when an employer does something fishy, ​​it usually doesn't go unnoticed."
