---
title: "Survival games: new realities for the Russian gaming community"
description: In 2022, representatives of the domestic gaming community had to seriously revise their work routine. RBC Trends figured out what gaming bloggers and brands should do in new circumstances.
date: 2022-05-12T19:00:51+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-12T18:48:38+03:00
images:
- 7Dunib9.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Unsplash'
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Valeria Korneeva
- RBC
tags:
- Gamification
- Experience Economy
- Russia
- media streaming
- New economy
categories:
- industry
stories:
---

About the Expert: Valeria Korneeva, Head of Gaming at PBN H+K Strategies.

After the boom of the pandemic 2020 and strong growth in 2021, 2022 brought new challenges to the gaming industry and forced both the gaming community and brands to look for new ways to collaborate. Bloggers have lost opportunities to monetize content on YouTube and Twitch, and brands are hesitant to engage with and support the Russian gaming community right now.

## Sectional Gaming

Video games have long been one of the fastest growing and most profitable segments of the global entertainment industry. The real boom came in 2020, when a series of lockdowns literally forced people to stay at home and distract from disturbing news with the help of games. In the spring of 2020, game sales in 50 key global markets [grew by 63%](https://www.gamesindustry.biz/articles/2020-03-28-what-is-happening-with-video-game-sales-during-coronavirus), while the Russian video game market alone [grew by 35%](https://my.games/news/109) to ₽163.4 billion . music, sports and cinema.

The overall growth has attracted not only a new audience to gaming (during the pandemic, people began to spend [40% more](/article/61c995ec9a79471845177afb/) time playing games), but also the attention of brands. The understanding came that this is not just entertainment, but a whole ecosystem where people not only relax, but also earn. Brands have become more positive about cooperation with bloggers and streamers and directly with game publishers, the latter, in turn, have increasingly penetrated into popular culture through cooperation with musicians, actors, designers, museums, associations. Some games have become a platform for the creation of full-fledged works of art - just remember [the concert](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wYeFAlVC8qU) of rapper Travis Scott in Fortnite, the range [of gaming products](https://www.ikea.com/ru/ru/new/resheniya-ikea-i-rog-dlya-luchshikh-vpechatlenii-ot-igr-pub389940b0) from IKEA and ASUS Republic of Gamers,[collaboration](https://www.lacoste.com/us/lacoste-x-minecraft/) between Lacoste and Minecraft. Thus, at some point, games went beyond ordinary entertainment and today they increasingly affect various areas of our lives.

## Games as a profession

With the growing popularity of gaming, ways to monetize content are also developing - for example, streams, during which a blogger plays a game and communicates with the audience.

YouTube video monetization is commercial views of ads in videos, that is, views not of the video itself, but of the ad insert. There are two types: affiliate program, direct selling and sponsorship.

1. As part of the YouTube Partner Program, YouTube independently determines the algorithms by which ads will be shown. At the same time, the channel owner and the advertiser can also influence this process, choose the format of advertising and how this ad will be activated and who will be targeted.
2. Direct selling of advertising is a collaboration of a brand with a channel, when a blogger integrates advertising into a video. Usually, either advertising becomes part of it, or the product is present in the video in the product placement format. Also, the brand can sponsor the channel, ensuring its permanent presence on the blogger's channel.

The ways to monetize on Twitch are quite similar, but in addition to monetizing through viewing ads, Twitch offers streamers a paid subscription that any streamer who joins the Twitch Partner Program can sign up for. A paid subscription is most often multi-level and gives viewers certain privileges: the ability to disable ads, more emoticons for chat, and much more. Streamers can also add various banners from advertisers to the broadcast screen, which can lead to partner sites, contain information about discounts and promo codes, and even give viewers the opportunity to play a mini-game right during the broadcast.

Also, one of the most important tools for monetization is a service called DonationAlerts - in fact, a donation system that is fully adapted to the Russian market. This is a must-have for any streamer that can be connected not only to Twitch, but also to other sites.

Separately, it is worth mentioning another type of monetization that is gaining popularity among game brands - the so-called support of authors. With the help of such programs, companies enable bloggers to earn money by creating content for their games. As a rule, it works like this: a blogger is assigned a special code that he can advertise on broadcasts or in videos. Fans enter this code when making a purchase in the in-game store, and the blogger receives a percentage of each such purchase.

In the spring of 2022, the Russian gaming community found itself in a difficult situation: on the one hand, gamers can no longer buy new games and make content, since most of the largest game publishers have suspended their activities in Russia and now only free-to-play games are available to bloggers. Also, they can't earn like they used to because monetization options on YouTube and Twitch are disabled. Thus, many have lost not only new content that can be shown to viewers, but also their income, because for many, streaming and blogging in general is the main source of income.

## How bloggers can keep their audience and income

Bloggers and streamers support YouTube and Twitch content through social media and other entertainment platforms. These channels include Telegram and VK - for communication with viewers, announcements, news and contests, as well as TikTok. As a rule, advertiser brands are more interested in the main platform, i.e. YouTube or Twitch, while placement on secondary sites is seen as a nice bonus.

According to a survey conducted by PBN Hill+Knowlton Strategies among major Russian bloggers and streamers, service restrictions have hurt their operations, but many of them still have well-established channels to gain access to new games. In addition, the drop in coverage is insignificant, about 10%, which means that the two main components - streamers and people who want to watch streams - have not gone away. The most you can expect is a site change. Of course, for beginner streamers, this is much more difficult, since they will have to gain an audience on a platform that has not yet been developed and compete for subscribers with leading content creators who will also develop their channels.

Thus, while there is no way to get a “coin” on the usual platforms, it makes sense to focus on additional sites that become centers of attraction for the gaming community, where people support bloggers and each other in every possible way. It is important to keep the audience and look for opportunities for posting, and for this, bloggers will try alternative sites and post cross-platform content, which will allow them not to lose their reach. For those bloggers who do not want to lose collaboration with brands, it is important to quickly decide what other platforms they go to.

After blocking many foreign social media platforms and suspending the possibility of posting on TikTok, a huge part of the audience went to Telegram and VK. And if the conversion of the lifestyle audience is not so high, then the same sites of gaming bloggers have long been mastered, which means that a significant part of their fan base is already present there. If we talk about streams, then you should look at live broadcasts on VK, to which DonationAlerts already mentioned above is easily connected, as well as to VK Video or RuTube for posting video content, in which direct advertising sales or, in other words, integration with brands are possible . It makes sense to study the advertising opportunities of Telegram, as well as review your content and, possibly, reformat some of it for short videos for the same VK Clips.

## What brands should do

Until recently, the gaming industry has been quite apolitical, and restrictions on games have rarely worked on streamers and bloggers. Now the situation is a little different: publishers have limited access not to specific content, but to the means of obtaining content in general. For people whose professional activities are directly related to earning income from streaming platforms, this is a real crisis.

According to the surveyed bloggers, the audience has not gone away, despite the fact that they began to produce less content. The community supports its favorites and is ready to accept new content formats and venue changes. Most bloggers, meanwhile, are in a wait-and-see position and follow the news, trying to stay afloat until the services begin to return functions to the region. This means that now more than ever they need the support of not only their fans, but also brands.

## Gaming brands

Most of the foreign gaming companies have suspended their activities, but have not left the market for good. Some of them are trying to find new ways to pay for new games in launchers for players from Russia and the CIS, but until then, new paid content is not available. Aggressive marketing is not entirely appropriate and generally inappropriate, since the purchase of games is ultimately not available anyway, but if the company intends to keep and support the community, then the best thing to do now is to establish channels for providing keys for new games and seasonal updates . The main goal of such a strategy is, first of all, to retain the audience, and not blogging content on the game.

At the same time, in the medium term, gaming companies should pay attention to the issue that has long been on the agenda regarding the approach to the Russian gaming community. Companies often take a one-size-fits-all approach: invite bloggers to global events in English, release localized content later (and tolerate poor translation or no content at all), and generally rarely run purely local initiatives. This often repels members of the community, who, although they are ready to take part in brand events, often have access to only a small part of the events or face organizational and content difficulties during participation. Sometimes bloggers cannot cover an event in a quality manner, because there is not enough information, and exclusive opportunities (early access to games, separate gaming sessions, events) are provided to representatives of other regions. As a result, bloggers get the feeling that the brand is not interested in representatives of the Russian community.

In turn, the situation did not affect Russian gaming companies in any way, which, against the backdrop of restrictions, faced a massive increase in players. For example, [according to the developers](https://games.mail.ru/pc/news/2022-03-14/registracii-v-allodah-uvelichilis-v-80-raz-na-fone-uhoda-wow-iz-rossii/) of the Allods Online game, one of the main Russian competitors of the popular World of Warcraft game, the average number of registrations per day in the game has increased by 80 times. Most likely, this is also a temporary phenomenon until the gaming giants restore their functions again, however, Russian developers should pay attention to new bloggers and a new potential audience - now they have a much better chance of competing for the attention of those who prefer competitors in games.

## Non-gaming brands

As already noted, non-gaming brands have long been actively exploring the gaming direction and are looking for new ways to cooperate with both publishers and bloggers. FMCG brands are the most active, most often manufacturers of products conventionally associated with gamers — pizza, chips, energy drinks, and so on. For example, in 2020, the Moskovsky Potato company and the PUBG Mobile shooter launched a joint campaign and abandoned advertising on TV in favor of Twitch, and in 2018 the Monster Energy energy drink brand [became](https://navi.gg/read/text/327-monster-energy-novyi-general-nyi-partner-natus-vincere) the general partner of the NAVI eSports team. The chewing gum brand Five held three major activations at once with the largest streamers: Battle for Gear (an interactive show with character prank), Fierce Boxing. Run a streamer” (streamer challenges) and “Stream House” (talk show with streamers). Thus, they not only attracted the right audience, but also carried out activity with bloggers according to all the laws of direct advertising sales on Twitch.

Since bloggers are still making content and planning to adapt it to other platforms, the video and stream integration format continues to live, and this is now the best way for paid interaction with the gaming community, for which such activities will be one of the main sources of income in the current realities. It is important not to ignore or perceive as secondary such rising platforms as VK and Telegram, and to focus on more community-focused activities, even if they are quite simple.

According to [a study](https://www.ixbt.com/news/2021/12/25/gejming-v-rossii--jeto-pk-onlajn-i-sposob-otvlechsja-ot-problem.html) conducted by the HP team, for 37% of Russians, games were a way to cope with anxiety during a pandemic. Recent studies do show that games, contrary to stereotypes, have a positive effect on people's psychological health. At a time when games are becoming more than just entertainment, and the gaming community is facing not only a lack of content, but also a loss of opportunities for monetization and channel development, instead of aggressive promotion, it is very important for gaming and non-gaming brands to be flexible: to be as useful for the audience and gently return to the news feeds of Russian gaming publications.


