---
title: 'NFT and contemporary art: why buy "pictures from the Internet"'
description: In the new episode of the podcast “What has changed?” we understand how the digital art market works, is it possible to predict success and which NFT artists should be followed.
date: 2022-05-11T14:00:31+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-11T13:44:52+03:00
images:
- IzDZKua.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Shutterstock'
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Anastasia Moroshkina
- RBC
tags:
- Cultural trends
- Blockchain
- Futurology in art
categories:
- innovation
stories:
---

## What is the NFT market and how it works

NFT is the moment that changed everything, says Brickspacer. Artists have the opportunity to earn on their work in the same way as musicians earn on streaming. As soon as the NFT phenomenon appeared, it turned out that it was not necessary for an artist to break into galleries for many years - you can just take it and show the world your work.

Buying an NFT is the same as owning a luxury item or an object of art. The experts of the issue claim that NFT is the most trending story related to cryptocurrencies.

The ownership of an NFT work is confirmed by the blockchain device itself. Any transaction made on the blockchain is recorded in a chain from which it cannot be deleted. NFT is a direct embodiment of the natural market, in which prices are regulated by the market itself. Demand is constantly falling and rising - sometimes even the artists themselves do not understand why their work is bought so expensive or so cheap.

The secondary market is very important for NFTs. When reselling and repurchasing a work, 5–15% of the cost is usually returned to the artist in the form of royalties. For example, the first crypto art collection - CryptoPunks - consisted of 10 thousand unique 8-bit images, which at the very beginning could be obtained for free or bought for a small amount. These images are now selling for $300,000 or more. From each resale, the creators receive royalties. Therefore, it is important not just to sell the collection, but to make people want to rebuy and resell it.

Twitter is where the main crypto community resides. Following and retweeting from well-known artists or collectors greatly increases the likelihood that the work will be bought. In NFT, a lot depends on the community - a purely visual component is not enough for success.

There are premium marketplaces on the market, which are very difficult or almost impossible for artists to get into. These are, for example, SuperRare or Nifty Gateway. If a work is exhibited on one of these sites, it will definitely be bought, says Brickspacer. But there are other platforms where you can place your NFT - Coinbase, Binance, Rarible, Async Art, etc.

## NFT and the Metaverse: What awaits us in the virtual future

Well-known contemporary artists — Pokras Lampas, Misha Most, the AES+F team and others — started working on NFT almost immediately. After some time, museums joined in — for example, the Hermitage sold five NFT tokens of paintings from the museum’s collection and earned more than half million USD on this.

With the purchased NFT, you can enter the metaverse, experts say. For example, to make exhibitions of digital art in online galleries. While the metaverse is only at the stage of development, NFT art can also be exhibited in offline museums - in the form of QR codes or simply on screens. But it must be remembered that the possession of a digital work does not imply the possession of a copyright in it - that is, you cannot, for example, put an image on a T-shirt and start selling.

One way to use NFTs is through social media avatars. At the beginning of 2022, Twitter launched support for NFT avatars . The user links the crypto wallet to his account and selects an avatar from his collection.

NFT is part of the overall process of technological development, Brickspacer is sure. NFT technology will gradually appear in more and more areas - for example, in the form of a certificate of graduation from a university. Avatars will replace material values ​​- in 5-10 years, those who have the most expensive avatars or the largest collection of virtual clothes will be more popular among teenagers.

Artem Antonyan adds that in the future, most people will increasingly begin to leave their familiar reality for a virtual one. This is not always a bad thing - people will be able to live a happy life in the metaverse, avoid depression and other possible problems. In addition, the metaverse is an outlet for those who cannot physically enjoy reality, such as people with disabilities or retirees. And NFTs are an integral part of that future.
