---
title: "Five tricky interview questions - how to answer them"
description: Many employers are not limited to requests to tell about yourself and typical interview questions. Trends explain how to work out the objections of the employer
date: 2022-05-13T10:40:37+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-13T10:32:47+03:00
images:
- RBOYxF5.jpg
caption:
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Maria Reshetnikova
- RBC
tags:
- HR and labor market
- Self-development
- Retraining
- Anti-crisis management
categories:
- Education
stories:
---

Often, applicants at an interview are faced with the fact that the future employer expresses doubts about their ability to cope with the responsibilities. Unexpected objections can confuse even the most prepared person and spoil the impression of the conversation.

## Five tricky interview questions

Experts advise not to get lost and work out any difficult question or objection the way successful sales managers do. In this case, the task is to “sell” yourself to the employer.

### Do you have enough experience?

This question is usually asked to those candidates whose past duties did not cover all the tasks in the proposed position. The best answer would be an argument in favor of your motivation to learn.

Answer options:

- "That's why I have more motivation than those who have already done this kind of work."
- “That's why I told you about project X, which I found and figured out in just a week. It shows that I'm a fast learner."

## Do you think your salary expectations are adequate?

Some employers at the interview may hint that the salaries that the applicant expects are “not on the market at all.” For some managers, such a question has become a proprietary way to “bring down the price” of a potential employee. The best option would be an answer-objection.

Answer options:

- “Isn’t it more important to hire someone who will have the qualifications you need?”
- “Wouldn’t it be better to make an offer that will motivate me to go to you?”

### Will you be bored working with us?
Such questions are usually asked to candidates who have decided to drastically change their field of activity. In this case, a non-aggressive clarifying question should be asked as an answer.

Answer options:

- "Why did you decide so?"
- “What do you think, what attracted me to your vacancy?”

### How do you guarantee the achievement of goals?

This question is especially difficult for applicants, since they have not yet plunged into the company's work processes and can promise things that are obviously impossible to deliver. The best answer to the question is to tell a story from past experience with real examples. It is important not to exaggerate anything and to speak as truthfully as possible.

Possible answer:

- “Many of my customers were also interested in the terms and guarantees of closing vacancies. Let me tell you how the process is built where I work, and what results I achieve.”

### Will it be difficult for you?

Some employers try to find out the weaknesses of the applicant and ask such a question, meaning, for example, that the job involves a lot of business trips or negotiations. The best response is to reframe or present responsibility in a positive way.

Answer options:

- “Business trips are a great opportunity to travel around the country, I have long dreamed about it.”
- “Reworking is associated with the implementation of interesting and complex tasks, and this is the main thing for me, since I am set for professional growth. This is my priority for the coming years."
- “Customers are difficult because the projects are ambitious and we can be proud of them.”

### How to behave in an interview

Here are a few simple tips to help you prepare for difficult moments during an interview:

- Rehearse. You can make a list of difficult questions and ask loved ones to act out the interview.
- Think ahead and write down answers to difficult questions.
- Bring a notebook with you to meetings to jot down tricky questions and use the time to think about them.
- Prepare a few phrases that will allow you to get a breather if a difficult question has been asked. For example: “What an ambiguous question you asked. Give me a couple of minutes to think, please."
- Set up accordingly. It must be remembered that an interview is not an exam, and there can be no unambiguously correct answers. It is important to prepare well for the meeting, but do not despair if, as a result of the meeting, a job offer has not been received. Each interview should be taken as a learning phase.
