---
title: "How magnetic fields will make neural network training more environmentally friendly"
description: British scientists have figured out how to reduce the cost of electricity for training artificial intelligence using magnetic fields. We tell you what you need to know about it.
date: 2022-05-12T15:00:49+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-12T14:54:17+03:00
images:
- zbqGDy2.jpg
caption: "Photo: Unsplash"
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Anna Arbuzova
- RBC
tags:
- Artificial intelligence
- Nanotechnology
- Scientific discoveries
- energy saving
- shorts
- News
- Internet of Things
categories:
- industry
stories:
---

## What's happening

- Scientists at Imperial College London [have created](https://singularityhub.com/2022/05/09/nanomagnetic-computing-could-drastically-cut-ais-energy-use/) a nanomagnet device that uses magnetic fields to perform calculations rather than transmit electricity. This method can save electricity for the implementation of artificial intelligence in the Internet of things (IoT).
- The structure consists of hundreds of rods of permalloy, a soft magnetic alloy of iron and nickel. The length of the rods is 600 nm. The main feature of the resulting material is the ability to switch between magnetic fields.
- The device was tested on reservoir computing, a form of artificial intelligence that feeds a fixed system of data into a network and trains one output layer to interpret the data from that network. Scientists entered data into the system by exposing it to the magnetic fields of the created device.
- The fixed network can be replaced by systems such as memristors or generators.
- According to the researchers, their proposed method of calculating when scaling can be 100 thousand times more efficient than conventional ones.

## What does it mean

According to [an](https://venturebeat.com/2022/05/10/rising-ai-adoption-is-also-enabling-sustainability-new-ibm-research-finds/) IBM Think study, based on an analysis of a survey of 7.5 thousand employees of IT companies around the world, 35% of organizations already use artificial intelligence in their work, another 42% are exploring the possibilities of integrating it.

Among the factors that hinder the adoption of AI are high cost, lack of tools and platforms for developing AI models, problems with integration and scaling, and complex data.

In addition, artificial intelligence consumes a lot of energy and, accordingly, emits carbon dioxide. According to a study by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, during the training of one model for natural language processing, 284 tons of CO2 are [produced](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1906.02243.pdf). This is equivalent to the emissions of five cars over their lifetime.

