---
title: "Micromanagement: what is it, why is it dangerous and how to get away from it"
description: Excessive control over employees in a team can cause a drop in productivity and stagnation. Trends explain what are the disadvantages of micromanagement and how to get rid of it.
date: 2022-05-12T17:20:42+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-12T17:11:24+03:00
images:
- 34a9x2v.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Mark Wilson/Getty Images'
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Maria Reshetnikova
- RBC
tags:
- Project management
- Innovative business
- HR in innovation
- Agile
- Anti-crisis management
categories:
- innovation
stories:
---

## What is micromanagement

Micromanagement is a method of management when the leader [controls](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/m/micro-manager.asp) all the actions of subordinates, depriving them of the right to initiate. As a rule, with such an organization of management, the duties of employees are reduced to simple actions, and independence is not encouraged.

Micromanagement [is practiced by](https://www.slingshotapp.io/blog/what-is-micromanagement) those leaders who lack experience and skills in managing employees, as well as those who do not like to delegate their authority.

During the pandemic, when many organizations have switched to remote work, many managers have lost the opportunity to communicate with employees in person. This complicated communication and made the control of even the simplest processes more cumbersome. For some managers, this caused a feeling of disunity of the team, and they began to implement a more rigid management style - practice numerous phone calls and so on.

The problem is that some leaders in such a situation are not able to assess the situation, moving away from emotions. They spend time endlessly looking for better solutions instead of showing the team where to go and planning a roadmap.

The task of any manager is to be responsible for the result and make sure that employees are motivated, work smoothly and achieve goals. The time when performance was understood only as financial results has irrevocably passed.

## Why is micromanagement bad?

The desire of the head to totally control the processes in the company [can lead](https://tracktime24.com/Blog/the-negative-effects-of-micromanagement) to a number of negative consequences. Among them:

- decrease in trust and motivation in the team and, as a result, a drop in productivity;
- excessive time spent on monitoring and reporting employees;
- an increase in the risk of errors, since all decisions, in fact, are made by one person;
- lack of initiative, which leads to a decrease in the personal responsibility of the employee for his actions;
- rejection of creativity and possible omissions of effective strategies and solutions;
- excessive concentration on routine tasks to the detriment of strategy;
- a decrease in collective IQ due to the fact that the process of exchange of opinions is limited;
- departure of experienced employees who are unhappy with excessive control.

## How to get away from micromanagement?

A good manager must trust the team to carry out tasks for the sake of the goal formulated by him. To get away from excessive control, you will need to master several skills:

- **Clearly formulate goals and objectives.** The team needs to know what result to work for, not how to do the job. To do this, the leader must find out how clearly his subordinates are aware of the essence of the tasks assigned to them. To do this, you can conduct a simple survey. During meetings, it is good to remind employees what they are working for and emphasize that they themselves decide how to achieve the goal;
- **Build a collective consciousness.** Colleagues need to make a sound assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of everyone on the team in order to strive to fill in the gaps in the process of working on the product. The principle of collective encouragement, rather than individual achievement, works best for this.
- **Establish communication and negotiation process.** Employees should have a safe place to communicate with the manager. The manager should encourage such communication and show good feedback. The manager needs to learn to understand at what point the employee can be given more freedom in making decisions.
- **Achieve transparency in the team.** Employees must understand that their manager needs complete and accurate information about the job in order to make the right decisions. To do this, the head of the team must regularly explain why he needs this or that information and what specific processes it will affect. Each employee should feel comfortable with communication, not be afraid to ask for something.

In some situations, micromanagement can be useful. It is usually used when training new employees or when making a strategically important decision, when only the manager has the relevant competencies. Competent micromanagement allows you to create an atmosphere of trust in the team, if the manager finds an individual approach to each employee.


