---
title: "How to protect yourself from spam after the departure of foreign suppliers"
description: Not only fast food, automakers and fashion brands are suspending their activities on the Russian market. Loud departures occurred in the IT sector. What will happen without companies that have stopped supporting their anti-spam solutions
date: 2022-05-13T15:30:21+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-13T15:15:14+03:00
images:
- g7Yor3w.jpg
caption:
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Alexander Dvoryansky
- RBC
tags:
- cybersecurity
- New economy
- IT
- Russia
categories:
- industry
stories:
---

About the author: Alexander Dvoryansky, director of special projects at Angara Security.

In the spring of 2022, two well-known IT vendors, Cisco and Fortinet, stopped supporting their anti-spam solutions. Unfortunately, when an IT vendor decides to leave the market, for companies using its products, this means that when questions arise, there is no one else to ask them. You can draw an analogy with a car: you have it, but there is nowhere to fix it.

With its departure, the vendor deprives users of the opportunity to fully use the product: the databases will not be updated, technical support will not be provided. If the system breaks down or needs to be reconfigured, it will not stop working at the same minute, but will become less and less effective every day. In numbers, it looks something like this: first, the anti-spam solution protects by 99% instead of 99.9%, after a day, for example, - 95%, after another day - 90%, and so on. After a short period of time, the product will turn into a "pumpkin", that is, it will cease to do its job, because the effectiveness of filtration methods will be equal to zero.

## Why you need antispam

The average HR or sales person in a company often corresponds with external contacts, often his mailbox is available in open sources. This means that the email address can be at the disposal of both spam bots and intruders. Such mailings are not only annoying and time-consuming, but may contain malicious attachments and links to malicious resources. Spam is one of the most popular channels for cybercriminals to spread threats, because mail is the main communication tool in the vast majority of companies. And if today the share of advertising spam is decreasing, then the share of malicious spam is increasing many times.

When antispam works fully, the user does not have to filter out unnecessary messages in the mail, because the vendor works ahead of the curve. He monitors the situation in the field of information security and, having received a letter for the first time, where a new method of bypassing anti-spam systems is used, he adds it to his databases, thereby protecting clients. In addition, antispam today is inextricably linked with antiphishing. Therefore, companies are considering the fight against spam in conjunction with scanning mail traffic for malicious links and software, using complex mail protection solutions for this.

Now imagine that an employee receives 100 emails a day, of which only 30 are for work, and 70 are spam. This situation can indeed occur if the product is not updated. Spam is getting bigger every day. If earlier a person concentrated on 30 letters, now, in addition to the usual tasks of parsing correspondence and answering it, he will also need to deal with distinguishing an unnecessary and possibly dangerous letter from a normal one. Spammers are constantly improving their methods, so often, in order to understand their tricks, you need to have a fairly high level of digital literacy. Every day, the volume of unwanted incoming companies, where there is a solution that has ceased to be updated, will increase. If you do not limit this "garbage" flow,

## What do developers think

According to Mikhail Pribochiy, managing director of Kaspersky Lab in Russia and the CIS, there is no doubt that companies will look for replacement solutions for both protecting corporate mail and Internet gateways for scanning incoming and outgoing traffic.


*** 

**Mikhail Pribochiy, Kaspersky Lab:**

“In March 2022 alone, the demand for these two classes of systems increased fivefold in each of the areas. At the same time, the proportion of unwanted messages in email traffic remains high. Every year it makes up almost half of all incoming letters. For example, in 2021 it was 45.56%, and the Anti-Phishing system prevented more than 253 million clicks on phishing links. Our technologies allow you to cut off spam, block malicious messages containing viruses and phishing addresses, and control the transmission of data via email

It is important to remember that spam is not only information garbage, but also letters that can allow you to steal data and money. These are, for example, messages that contain a link to a supposedly legitimate, but in fact fake resource. Often attackers use in texts as hooks to attract the user's attention, the names of banks, large companies, online stores. If an attack is aimed not only at an individual, but at the entire infrastructure of a company, then such a letter can be the first step towards infecting internal systems or machines. In one of the worst-case scenarios, ransomware can be distributed through spamming, blocking access to sensitive data. The successful use of such software seriously disrupts business processes, resulting in large financial and reputational losses.”

***

According to Group-IB, in Russia in three weeks - from February 17 to March 10, 2022 - the number of malicious mailings doubled compared to three weeks earlier: spyware (72%) is most often sent, backdoors (131% ), loaders (325%).

**Dmitry Volkov, CEO Group-IB:** “In view of working remotely, many customers are considering cloud-based protection of mail traffic. When choosing such a solution, it is important to make sure that it not only protects against known threats, but also is able to detect unknown ones, countering sandbox bypasses. Our company also has such a solution — it analyzes and blocks emails containing malicious objects and links in real time.”

**Vasily Sevostyanov, Head of Dr.Web Technical Sales Support Department:** “Antispam is an important element in countering the penetration of malicious objects into the corporate network. Very often, Trojans enter the protected perimeter through mail, especially if the user is not familiar with the basics of information security and opens all letters and attachments in a row. For anti-spam to be as effective as possible, it is important that the need for anti-spam training be kept to a minimum, as it interferes with rapid response to new waves of spam mailings.”

The anti-spam filter is the first barrier that filters out threats. Companies will not only have to decide on the choice of a new supplier, but also solve the issues of integrating the solution with various systems used in the company's infrastructure, for example, with a SIEM system, a sandbox, and flexibly configure the product in order to protect against precisely those attacks that can be aimed at this company.

