---
title: "We wanted the best: what useful technologies can harm"
description: Mankind hopes that innovations will make the world a better place, scientists are completely convinced of this. But the belief in the salvation of progress does not prevent experts from thinking about the dangers of advanced developments.
date: 2022-05-13T18:30:26+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-13T18:22:35+03:00
images:
- 0nFSxGm.jpg
caption: "Photo: Tim Boyle / Newsmakers"
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Anna Kirikova
- RBC
tags:
- Implementation of innovations
- Scientific discoveries
- Human versus AI
- Nanotechnology
- Digital Medicine
- conspiracy theory
- Military technology
categories:
- innovation
stories:
---

Since the advent of science, discussions about what options for non-targeted, dangerous, non-peaceful use of certain technologies are possible have not ceased. At the same time, the scientific community does not intend to sow panic in any way: there is no reason for this, because everything in this world can be used not as intended, not only scientific developments, but even resources donated by nature. The whole purpose of the discussion is to study the risks, to understand where to lay the straw, what checks and balances to establish.

Let's try to see what exactly interests scientists today, what problems of what advanced technologies they are discussing, and what potential problems they are preparing to solve.

## Artificial intelligence and poisons

Artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies are a resource with great potential. One of the possible areas of its application is pharmacology. It is expected that powerful neural networks will help to identify candidate molecules with high accuracy for creating effective drugs. Medicines for almost any ailment. Medicines for solving specific problems with precisely known properties - targeted. The speed with which it will be possible to develop drugs will not be compared with what we have now, relying only on the "human mind".

However, it will be possible to create poison at the same speed, the authors of an article published in the journal [Nature Machine Intelligence](https://www.nature.com/articles/s42256-022-00465-9.pdf?origin=ppub) warn . Experts conducted an experiment in which they tried to create harmful substances using a machine learning system designed to search for non-toxic compounds. As a result, in less than six hours, they were able to identify tens of thousands of dangerous molecules, including those similar in characteristics to the chemical warfare agent VX.

## Vaccines and viruses

Another scientific paper on the issue of potential misuse is on current COVID-19 vaccines.

In the article, scientists [consider](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0264410X21001717) both mRNA and vector platforms. Both platforms work by forcing the cells of the body to independently produce proteins that are identical to the virus protein to which immunity is required. At the same time, the first one directly uses matrix RNA (“instructions for protein production”) for this, and the second one packs the “instructions” into “delivery modules” based on genetically modified viruses that lack the ability to reproduce.

The first technology causes little concern - when creating mRNA vaccines, there is no work with the entire genome of the virus. The second gives rise to a little more concern. Since the vector platform involves changing the genetic material of a vector virus, the technology can be used not only to weaken the pathogen (as happens when creating, for example, Sputnik V or the vaccine from Johnson & Johnson), but also to strengthen it. That is, to increase virulence, harmfulness.

It is worth noting, however, that traditional methods of making vaccines are potentially suitable for off-target use. The authors of the article assess the risk of such use for “live vaccines” (vaccines based on a live but weakened virus) as “medium-high”, since attempts to weaken the virus can lead to unwanted mutations of the virus. Moreover, quite unpredictable.

## Accessible genetic engineering and pathogenic bioagents

[Awarded](https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/chemistry/2020/press-release/) with the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2020, CRISPR/Cas9 technology still raises questions about its safety from the point of view of misuse. The tool that made genome editing fast, understandable, cheap and accessible to a large number of laboratories (even unprepared ones) can handle everything from treating hereditary diseases to creating genetically modified mosquitoes that cannot tolerate malaria.

However, it is its versatility and ease of use that [becomes](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13238-017-0493-4) a worrying factor: having acquired the technology, potential attackers could process natural neurotoxins or create new types of infectious agents (bacteria, viruses), changing existing ones.

## Synthetic biology and new species

Synthetic biology refers to the development of fundamentally new types of organic compounds (enzymes, genetic sequences, cells) and even complete organisms from scratch. The DNA of such organisms may have nucleic bases not found in nature.

"Synthetics" can be used, for example, for the production of certain chemicals. For example, it will be possible to create a group of cells capable of releasing given substances - for example, yeast has already [“taught”](https://www.nonproliferation.eu/wp-content/uploads/2019/09/EUNPDC_no-64_FINAL.pdf) how to synthesize a drug called noscapine.

Also, the technology can be used to build computing devices based on biological structures that mimic similar ones in electronic microcircuits.

The threats posed by the industry as a whole are as great as the potential. At the same time, the greatest concern is the possibility of using technology to create biological or chemical weapons.

However, it should be noted that synthetic biology is more difficult to master and apply than CRISPR/Cas9 or classical genetic engineering technologies.

## Medical robotics and its non-medical applications

Unlike genetic engineering or synthetic biology, which has the potential to cause massive damage to society, robotic biomedical devices do not seem like such a threat, but they should not be written off.

For example, as the researchers write in an article for the [Swiss Medical Weekly](https://smw.ch/article/doi/smw.2018.14688), automated exoskeletons that can “get back on their feet” people with musculoskeletal problems, or give nurses working with seriously ill patients to save strength, can be used in the army or for uniforms of illegal military formations, gangs. Devices will increase the productivity of fighters, reduce their fatigue, allow them to move more freely over rough terrain - give them an advantage in battle. The same threats are posed by "smart prostheses" and implantable neurochips to improve vision or hearing or to reduce sensitivity (usually used to treat pain syndromes).

On the other hand, "smart" implants that often keep people alive (for example, drug pumps, pacemakers) can become a target for hackers. Attackers can use device vulnerabilities to harm both a specific person and all users of a particular product.

## Nanotechnology and the military

In a broad sense, nanotechnology refers to the scientific field that develops new inorganic materials by manipulating particles ranging in size from 1 to 100 nanometers. Considering that innovative materials with unique characteristics can be created by anyone, by anyone and for any purpose, the use of nanotechnology, which is dangerous for society, [cannot be ruled out](https://www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctt5hgz15.7?seq=1).

One option for unwanted use is for military purposes. For example, to develop [materials](https://www.degruyter.com/document/doi/10.1515/9783110669282-008/pdf) for weapons, ammunition, materials that accelerate wound healing, poisonous substances, or even to design nano-robots that could theoretically be used to defeat the enemy. Unregulated, uncontrolled or even "underground" use of such innovations would lead to an inequality of power, the researchers write.

## Neuroscience and mind control

Today, medicine does a pretty good job of treating most physical (or bodily) diseases, but mental and, even more so, neurological diseases are still poorly treatable.

Therefore, the study of the work of the nervous system in general and the brain in particular is very active, scientists are developing both technologies for “recognizing” what is in people’s “heads” and offering solutions on how to fix it. This is especially true with an aging population and an increase in the number of those who need therapy for Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. Scientists estimate that the number of innovative solutions to make life easier for people with dementia [triples](https://www.scopus.com/record/display.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85013420536&origin=inward&txGid=3811ce06c48ad7964dc34e310981a193&featureToggles=FEATURE_NEW_DOC_DETAILS_EXPORT:1) every five years.

The problem is also that most of these devices [can be used](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627317311406) for military purposes - for example, interfaces that allow you to control devices using the "power of thought" (nerve impulse) are great for working with weapons. And oxytocin, which is being researched as a cure for parkinsonism, could also be used to increase the motivation to fight. fMRI technologies, which measure the activity of certain areas of the brain, can be used to obtain information about a person that he would not like to give - for example, data about his fears (fear-causing factors provoke a response in certain brain segments that can be detected using equipment).

## How to counter the misuse of technology

Various options for countering the threats of non-targeted, dangerous use of technologies are considered. Unfortunately, the optimal path has not yet been developed, but, in general, today the scientific community [suggests](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK458500/) thinking about the following:

- On the prioritization of the information security of scientific data (reliable storage of any potentially dangerous information - for example, the genomes of harmful viruses or formulas of dangerous chemical compounds - is necessary).
- On the non-publication in the public domain of certain scientific studies (or parts of studies) that have an increased potential for misuse (for example, for military or terrorist purposes).
- On raising the awareness of scientists about the problems and risks of dual-use technologies, on paying increased attention to the relationship between ethics and science in the course of the educational process.
- On strengthening international cooperation to supervise the safe use of advanced developments.
- On the formation of a comprehensive legislative regulation of the issue both in specific countries and regions, and in the global space.
- On maintaining public discourse and information transparency (consumers must understand the basics of the safe use of technology, public discussion is desirable).

