---
title: "What a programming tester should be able to do and how to become one"
description: Anna Dolgova, head of recommender systems testing at VK, talks about how to become a successful tester and why this is a good start to a career in the IT field.
date: 2022-05-13T13:00:29+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-13T12:46:49+03:00
images:
- 5xe2x1J.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Pexels'
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Ksenia Klimentieva
- RBC
tags:
- Programming
- Professions of the future
- Social media
- IT
- HR and labor market
- soft skills
categories:
- education
stories:
---

In short, the main task of a tester is to check the operation of the software for compliance with the requirements and fix bugs. Ideally, the real results of the program (website, service, application) should match the expected ones. If this does not happen, the task of the tester is to identify where and what is going wrong, and convey this information to the developers so that the problem can be fixed. That is, globally, testers are responsible for ensuring the quality of the software.

## How to build a career in testing

The initial rung of this career ladder is manual testing. Such specialists literally work with their hands and eyes. For example, if the customer wants the button to be red, but for some reason it is green on the site, then this is a bug that the tester must “catch”. It is believed that the profession of a tester has a low threshold for entering IT (compared to programming), so testing is quite appropriate to consider as an opportunity to start working in the IT field.

If a tester has a desire to automate his work, he can develop in autotesting. But this already requires at least knowledge of some programming language in which a person will write autotests. Therefore, salaries in this area are much higher. If a manual testing specialist without experience can claim USD60–80 thousand per year, with 1–1.5 years experience - up to USD150 thousand, then automated testing specialists with knowledge of programming languages ​​can earn many times more.

Testers can develop both horizontally and vertically. And then there are those who just like manual testing - and they always do it only. Some testers eventually change jobs within the IT industry and become programmers or analysts. Those who have developed flexible skills can retrain as product and project managers or team leaders. Career options are plentiful. So testing can really be a good start in IT.

## What should be a good tester

Each company has its own criteria for evaluating the work of testing specialists. One of the most common approaches is to estimate the proportion of bugs discovered after the release of the product in the total number of bugs. Indeed, in an ideal world, 100% of problems should be identified by testers.

Speaking of what it takes for a person to be a good tester, soft skills should not be underestimated. Moreover, sometimes they are more important than professional competencies.

## Personal qualities

**Adequacy.** The testing specialist must adequately assess reality and himself in it, respond to criticism and understand what he will do next time in order not to make this or that mistake again.

**Attentiveness.** The tester needs to be careful not to miss a critical bug that will negatively affect the user experience and, as a result, the reputation and financial success of the product.

**Sociability.** Do not think that a tester is a person who sits in a corner and presses buttons. In fact, these specialists communicate with a huge number of colleagues: with developers, managers, technical support specialists. Therefore, they should be able to at least express their thoughts clearly, and ideally also find a common language and build good relationships with different people, that is, have developed communication skills.

**Stress tolerance.** Last but not least. In order not to panic from every missed bug, but instead analyze your mistakes and prevent them in the future. In the case of found bugs, you also need not to panic, but calmly collect “evidence” (take a screenshot, record a video, attach logs) - and go to the developers with them.

## Professional skills

Among the technical skills of a tester, one can single out (at least superficial) knowledge of one or several programming languages, the ability to work with databases and with the console. A basic understanding of the client-server architecture, the ability to test API and use traffic sniffers (analyzers) will also come in handy. This will greatly simplify the interaction with developers and the workflow in general.

In addition, those wishing to become testers would do well to immerse themselves in the theory of testing - to study its types, test design techniques, types of test documentation, and other aspects. This is often asked in interviews.

## Who is not suitable for testing?

There is such a beautiful saying about the work of testers: for a tester, nothing should be more important than the happiness of the user. It sounds a bit pompous, but if you think about it, it is. Ultimately, everything a tester does, he does in order to make the end user happy.

What can be the result of a disdainful attitude towards the audience of the product and its responsibilities? Users are dissatisfied, the site went down, the company lost several million rubles in a day. And a significant share of the responsibility for this sad scenario will lie with the tester. Therefore, this work is definitely not for those who are not ready to take responsibility.

## How and where to study

At the level of universities in our country, there are no training programs for testing specialists yet. But for those who want to enter this field, there is a large selection of courses from different platforms that will help you gain the necessary knowledge and skills. VK Education, for example, has free courses for senior students of Russian universities.

A big plus of testing is that it does not take much time to master its basic tools. This area is open not only to students and graduates, but also to professionals who want to change their profile. For example, before working in IT, I held the position of a customs clearance specialist, and then I switched to testing and eventually became a team leader. Of course, at the first stage, you need to be prepared for some drop in income, but it will be temporary and should not stop those who really want to start a career in testing or in IT in general.

When choosing courses, you should give preference to those in which theory is combined with practice, and teachers not only give assignments, but also check them and help students reach the right solution on their own (this can be found, for example, from the feedback of those who study or have graduated ).

## Beginner Tips

- Broaden your horizons: A tester should know a little bit of everything from different areas of IT, and, if necessary, be able to dig deeper.
- Fear not: many people before you have had successful careers in testing, and you will too.
- Stay motivated: study regularly, whether it's in a course or on your own.
- Master testing tools: you can install the same traffic sniffers on your computer and see how they work.
