---
title: "15 rules of netiquet: how to behave online"
description: Compliance with the rules of network etiquette (netiquette) is no less important than usual. By following the basic principles of online behavior, you will be able to maintain your reputation both on the Internet and beyond.
date: 2022-05-13T14:20:55+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-13T22:47:36+03:00
images:
- NuAUZz5.jpg
caption: "Photo: Pexels"
width: 1200
height: 675
authors: 
- Rimma Remizova
- RBC
tags:
- Social media
- Cultural trends
- Inclusion
- social change
categories:
- social
stories:
---

## Communication theories

“Communication theories come from certain ideal conditions of communication and from the desire of people to create them. However, most people still do not strive to save time or respect the feelings of the addressee in digital formats,” says Tatyana Kaminskaya, Professor at the Department of Mass Communications and Media Business, Financial University under the Government of the Russian Federation.

Evgeny Korolev, a political scientist, candidate of political sciences, notes that there is a stereotype that mostly schoolchildren are engaged in hooliganism on the Internet. This is not true. Many adults, using relative anonymity and virtual impunity, use Internet communication as an online punching bag, safely draining the accumulated aggression.

“However, unlike a real punching bag, on the Internet, as a rule, it is not relaxation that follows, but a harder response. The conflict escalates, overgrows with negative emotions and turns into an uncontrollable “snowball”, which ultimately gives rise to neuroses and psychological discomfort for all participants in communication,” the expert says.

The rules of etiquette on the Internet are designed specifically to preserve personal boundaries and help us demonstrate our attitude towards the interlocutor.

**Yulia Zagitova, media researcher, secretary of the Union of Journalists of Russia:** “Today, this is especially important for social networks where content is created 24/7, so some users get the impression that we ourselves are open around the clock. Netiquet just shows the level of upbringing, intelligence and awareness.”

Yulia Shelygina, director of marketing communications at iConText Group, adds that, in fact, online communication is as real as offline communication. Moreover, the incorrectly formulated text of the message may be perceived not with the meaning that the author put into it, and this can lead to very negative consequences.

Tatyana Kaminskaya is convinced that nothing better in the last half century in its lapidarity and concreteness since the emergence of the principle of cooperation by Herbert Paul Grice and the principle of politeness by Jeffrey Leach has been proposed in world communication studies. These maxims apply to virtual communication of any kind.

The four maxims of Herbert Paul Grice, or basic rules that make communication convenient for all parties (“cooperative”):

1. Quantity (communication should contain no more and no less information than necessary).
2. Quality (the statement must be true - one should not say something for which there are no sufficient grounds).
3. Attitude (the response to communication should be adequate to what prompted the communication; you can’t shy away from the topic).
4. Way (should be expressed clearly, avoid incomprehensible phrases, ambiguity, verbosity; any contribution to communication should be clear to the listener).

Jeffrey Lynch formulated the principle of politeness, which he revealed in six maxims:

1. The maxim of tact is keeping a distance (it is impossible without the desire of the interlocutor to touch on topics related to his personal life, preferences, religious beliefs, salary, etc.).
2. Maxim of generosity - the desire to create comfortable conditions for the interlocutor (you can not burden him with obligations, put him in an uncomfortable position).
3. Maxim of approval - a positive assessment of others, the desire for the same position in relation to the world, people.
4. The maxim of sympathy is benevolence, the rejection of indifferent contact.
5. The maxim of consent is the rejection of a conflict position, the removal of the conflict by mutual correction of behavior.
6. Maxim of modesty - rejection of praise and flattery in one's address, realistic self-esteem.

## TOP 15 Netiquet Rules

### Real people take precedence

As Elizabeth Hartney writes in her [article](https://www.verywellmind.com/ten-rules-of-netiquette-22285) for Very Well Mind, constantly checking your email, messenger or social network messages makes it clear that you don’t care about others. If during an offline meeting someone tries to talk to you on a mobile phone, tablet or computer, stop what you are doing and pay attention to the person next to you. Everything that happens online can wait. If you're expecting an important call, email, or message, let the other person know ahead of time and apologize for interrupting the conversation.

Show respect to people in public places such as restaurants, transport, shops and elevators: try not to talk on the phone and mute notifications.

### Respectful language

Always remember that you are talking to a person. Any insults, verbal wars, curses and obviously offensive conclusions are unacceptable either in real life or online - that is, everything that you would not say in the face of any person who can see what is written. This applies to social networks, forums, chats and emails. Remember that insults on the Internet can be prosecuted.

Not only what you write, but how you write it can also be considered disrespectful. For example, text typed in capital letters is usually perceived as shouting. Remember to address strangers as "you", say hello, say "please" and "thank you" when appropriate.

### Caution in the name of safety

Don't post nude or drunk photos of yourself online, or any other photos showing your private life. For example, some communications may result in disciplinary action by an employer if deemed discriminatory in nature.

Any private information, whether it's a favorite color, first car, or pet's name, is valuable to scammers. Be careful on social media sharing such seemingly meaningless details that can be used as answers to security questions on your personal accounts.

## Personal space

Some people choose not to be added to large group chats or social media groups. Good netiquetting means that you must first get their permission to do so to make sure they don't mind. And if you have a local joke you want to share, it's best to send it in a private message rather than the whole group.

## Friends online

On a social network, before sending a request to add a person as a friend or accepting such an invitation, you should think carefully. If you don't want to maintain a long-term relationship with someone, it's a good netiquet not to add them as friends. It is perfectly acceptable to remove one of your friends if the relationship is broken and cannot be restored.

To stay in touch with a colleague without adding him as a friend, tell him that you use this social network only for close personal friendships. Invite him to connect, for example, to Telegram or another messenger to stay in touch.

### Respect for privacy

Do not forward the information sent to you. This applies to copying and pasting texts or sending screenshots. It is unacceptable to send important information in this form, such as logins, passwords, links, phone and card numbers.

Keep in mind that some people don't want their names or email addresses to be published to someone they don't know. The same goes for uploading photos or videos of other people to the Internet.

### Network cleanliness

Rumor spreading, ridiculous misrepresentation, and other forms of misinformation break the rules of online cleanliness. If you're unsure of the facts behind an online story or social media post, it's best not to repost. The best option is to do a little research through search engines and use critical thinking to find out if the message is true or a scam.

### Avoid Spam

The term "spam" applies to the receipt of any unsolicited message: an email, a text message on a messenger or social media, a phone call. Most of us are familiar with spam calls or spam emails from companies that we have not given permission to contact us. But we can also be spammed by relatives and friends.

Avoid doing this with your contacts and it will help keep your relationship alive. If you would like to share information, please ask permission before posting. This one step will help keep you from being blocked.

Also, don't open emails or social media messages from people you don't know, especially if they contain files that need to be downloaded.

### Reply to messages

Find an opportunity to reply to a message within a few hours, especially if the message is from family or friends. If it takes longer, let them know so they don't have to wait for your response.

Not only will avoiding a message disappear, it can even cause stress. Don't let this happen and respond as quickly as possible.

### Information update

Do not leave inaccurate information online, especially when actively looking for work on the Internet. If potential employers find out-of-date data on your social or professional page, they may assume that you are not taking this issue seriously enough and draw conclusions against you.

### Compliance with established rules

Every forum, group or chat has rules. Now it is customary to take them out into the fortifications so that newcomers can immediately familiarize themselves and not go to the “ban” for violating them.

### Spelling and punctuation

Check your writing for errors. Carelessly written text can cause rejection in the interlocutor or become misinterpreted.

### Forming a message

Every time you send a message, the person gets a notification tone. Therefore, you should not break the message into separate words or small parts.

### Voice messages

This method of communication is convenient only for those who send these messages, which cannot be said about the addressee. A person does not always have the opportunity to retire or use headphones to listen to the message. As a result, it takes much more time than just reading the text.

### Emoji and screenshots

In Internet correspondence, it is difficult to understand the intonation of the interlocutor, and here emoticons come to the rescue. However, the clutter of emoji makes it difficult to read and understand what you want to say. Do not replace words with emoticons. Don't insert emojis where they are inappropriate, such as in business emails. Use them in moderation and then they will help communication, and not turn it into a puzzle.

