---
title: "In Britain, created a service for the selection of building materials based on a neural network"
description: The British firm Domus has created an AI-based building materials selection service. He determines the material, texture, pattern and small decorative objects from the image, and then looks for a suitable product in the company's catalog
date: 2022-05-13T16:30:13+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-13T16:14:21+03:00
images:
- umqrazt.jpg
caption:
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Anna Arbuzova
- RBC
tags:
- Neural networks
- Fourth industrial revolution
- landscaping
- Artificial intelligence
- Company cases
- Shorts
- News
categories:
- industry
stories:
---

## What's happening

- The Domus construction company has [created the](https://www.dezeen.com/2022/05/11/domus-image-search-app-tiles-finishing-materials-video/) Domus Image Search service to search for finishing materials. The service is available on computers, tablets and smartphones.
- The user uploads an image of materials, textures and patterns, and the service selects suitable products in the Domus catalog based on visual similarity. The purpose of the technology is to reduce the time for manual search for materials.
- The service recognizes almost all textures, shapes, colors and materials. In addition, the algorithm detects small finishing details thanks to a tool that allows you to cut out certain parts of the image.
- The service has filters based on machine learning. According to Stylib CEO Noam Naveh, whose company developed Image Search software, filters such as contrast and complexity make searching simple and intuitive.
- Users can save favorite products and order samples online.

## What does it mean

According to IBM Think, 35% of companies in the world [use](https://venturebeat.com/2022/05/10/rising-ai-adoption-is-also-enabling-sustainability-new-ibm-research-finds/) artificial intelligence in their work. AI performs both routine work and performs complex calculations and makes predictions.

For example, consumer goods company Johnson & Johnson and consulting firm Accenture [are using](https://www.newmetrix.com/non-tech-businesses-are-beginning-to-use-artificial-intelligence-at-scale) artificial intelligence to sort through job applications and select candidates. The American financial publication Bloomberg uses AI to analyze the financial statements of companies and generate news articles. At Leroy Merlin, a French home improvement store, AI collects and processes sales data to make recommendations for stocking shelves.

