---
title: "Scientists from Moscow State University came up with a way for athletes to avoid hypoxia"
description: A sensor has been created at Moscow State University to monitor the physical condition of athletes. Device measures lactate levels and sweating rate and warns of hypoxia
date: 2022-05-13T11:20:35+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-13T11:07:15+03:00
images:
- YXLjUcG.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Unsplash'
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Anna Arbuzova
- RBC
tags:
- Digital Medicine
- Scientific discoveries
- Implementation of innovations
- News
- Shorts
categories:
- industry
stories:
---

## What's happening

- Chemists and materials scientists from Moscow State University [have developed](https://www.msu.ru/science/main_themes/novyy-potovoy-sensor-pomozhet-kontrolirovat-sostoyanie-sportsmenov-vo-vremya-trenirovki.html) a sensor that will help control the physical condition of an athlete in training.
- The sensor measures the concentration of lactate - salts of the mammary gland in human sweat, as well as the rate of sweating. Measurement of the first indicator helps to determine hypoxia - a decrease in the level of oxygen in the body. Hypoxia appears with high physical exertion, leads to fatigue in the muscles, and with prolonged exertion - to poor health.
- The biosensor looks like composite membranes, that is, composite membranes made of materials with different properties. Attached to this construct is a catalyst for the enzyme lactate oxidase. It oxidizes lactate, thereby forming hydrogen peroxide. On top of this catalyst is a membrane based on Prussian blue. Its nanoparticles quickly and accurately detect hydrogen peroxide, whose concentration is proportional to lactic acid residues. If the concentration is high, then hypoxia is fixed
- Different membranes of the device show either the concentration of lactate or the rate of sweating.
- The researchers concluded that lactate levels and sweat production are independent parameters. Lactate is an indicator of hypoxia, not a function of sweat rate.

## What does it mean

Medical technologies monitor the physical form of an athlete, help to recover from training and competition, and prevent injuries. Devices and sensors track heart rate, temperature, metabolism and other biometric data. Such devices are being developed all over the world.

Scottish company [Athletigen Technology Inc.](https://athletigen.com/) creates tests that, by DNA, determine the possibility of injury, as well as the most appropriate nutrition for an athlete.

[The Vert app](https://sportprosystems.ru/individ/) analyzes an athlete's jumps and monitors their fatigue. The Australian company Catapult Sports is developing [trackers](https://www.athleticbusiness.com/operations/media-technology/article/15148805/infographic-wearable-tech-and-sports-injury-prevention) that track more than 100 health indicators and provide information on them to the coach.
