---
title: "Google will disable some servers in Russia that speed up content loading"
description: "This equipment improves video quality and reduces operators' costs. Some Russian ISPs have received server downtime notifications from Google, which speed up the loading of the company's services. On the networks of the largest operators, this equipment continues to work."
date: 2022-05-26T00:00:15+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-26T00:00:15+03:00
images:
- CP1OvOm.jpg
caption: "Photo: Vladimir Astapkovich / RIA Novosti"
authors:
- Daria Chebakova
- Margarita Ovsyannikova
- Anna Balashova
- RBC
categories:
- technology and media
tags:
stories:
---

Google has notified several Russian service providers that they are terminating their contracts for servicing Google Global Cache servers, which are used to speed up the loading of Google services, including YouTube content. RI was told about this by two sources in the telecommunications market. This was also announced by the head of the legal company "Ordercom" Dmitry Galushko in his Telegram channel.

According to Galushko, several telecom operators received notifications, including the Orenburg-based provider Radiosvyaz (operating under the Focus Life brand). The latter received a letter from one of Google's Irish subsidiaries, Raiden Unlimited Company (RI has a copy of the document), which stated that "due to changes in legal practice" the servers would be turned off and Google employees would contact the provider in the near future, to take the equipment out of service.

A representative of Radio Communications confirmed to RI that these servers were turned off on May 19, and a notification was received a few days later. He does not know the reasons for the shutdown, but he suggested that perhaps the American company considered this operator too small - a relatively small amount of traffic passed through the Google Global Cache server installed on it.

The same notice, according to another interlocutor of RI in the telecommunications market, was received by the MIPT-Telecom provider. In this notice, Google referred to the provider’s employees as “the MIPT team,” and the source linked the shutdown of the servers to the fact that the institute was on the sanctions list.

RI sent a request to the Russian and Irish subsidiaries of Google.

After the publication of the material, a MIPT representative confirmed to RI that in March 2022, the MIPT-Telecom provider was unilaterally disconnected from Google Global Cache. But "the quality of services for customers should not be affected," the representative assured.

## Why Google Global Cache is needed

Google installs Google Global Cache servers on ISP networks around the world to reduce the load on backbone networks and increase the speed of user access to its own services (primarily uploading videos to YouTube). These servers store for some time the content that the local user has requested, for example, a video from YouTube, and if this video then wants to be viewed by another user from Russia, it will be transmitted to him not from the foreign data center of Google, but from the internal network of the provider from the server Google Global Cache. This allows you to download content faster, and providers reduce the amount of cross-border traffic and, as a result, the cost of network infrastructure.

## Is there a threat of a complete shutdown of servers and what is it fraught with

A representative of Rostelecom, the largest Russian Internet access operator, told RI that the company "does not observe outages" of Google Global Cache servers. The representative of MTS, in turn, said that "the delivery of traffic from Google's resources is carried out for MTS in the normal mode." They do not see any changes in the operation of this equipment and in MegaFon. Representatives of VimpelCom (Beeline brand), T2 RTK Holding (Tele2) and ER-Telecom Holding declined to comment.

At the same time, in mid-May, the Russian "daughter" of Google - LLC "Google" - began bankruptcy proceedings. As the representative of the company explained , she can no longer ensure the work of the office due to the arrest of her bank account. The arrest was imposed as an interim measure in the suit of the NTV television company, which is trying to recover a penalty for refusing to unblock users' access to their YouTube account. This is just one of the claims brought against Google by various Russian structures. In addition, in December last year, the court imposed a turnover fine on Google in the amount of more than 7.2 billion rubles. for not removing content prohibited in Russia. In May, Russian bailiffs opened a case against the company for the forced recovery of this amount.

RI's source in one of the major Internet providers says that the bankruptcy of the Russian "daughter" of Google has nothing to do with the shutdown of caching servers. “This structure was not engaged in their service. This is a global service,” he explained.

One of the experts in the field of IT services added that in addition to YouTube, Google Global Cache servers host other Google services, such as Google CAPTCHA (generates a random set of numbers, letters and their combinations to check whether a person or a robot is trying to access the site). “If the operator is deprived of the ability to store this service on the Google server, users may start to have problems: the CAPTCHA may not load or be displayed as a failure,” he predicts. This, according to the expert, “theoretically could affect the prices for the Internet for users”, because the operators will have to compensate for the increased maintenance costs. The load on the networks may also increase and the stability of the channels may decrease: if earlier there were many sources of content and it was possible to use the one that is closer,

However, a Google representative previously stated that, despite the bankruptcy of the Russian legal entity, the company will continue to provide local users with free services such as a search engine, YouTube, Gmail, Google Maps, Google Play, etc.


