---
title: "Lavrov warned against supplying Kyiv with weapons that could reach Russia"
description: 
date: 2022-05-26T21:34:19+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-26T21:34:19+03:00
images:
- BLif3zH.jpg
caption: 'Sergei Lavrov (Photo: Russian Foreign Ministry)'
authors:
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
- Sergei Lavrov
- arms shipments
- Ukraine
- escalation of the conflict
stories:
- Military operation in Ukraine
---

Supplies by Western countries to Ukraine of weapons that can reach Russian territory will lead to an unacceptable escalation, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said in an interview with [RT Arabic](https://arabic.rt.com/live/).

According to him, the West continues to “pump Ukrainian nationalists with weapons”, calling on Kyiv to defeat Russia in the conflict. President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky demands the supply of weapons capable of causing damage to the territory of Russia.

“We warned the West in the most serious way that they are already, in fact, waging a proxy war with the Russian Federation with the hands, bodies, brains of Ukrainian neo-Nazis, but this will be a serious step towards an unacceptable escalation,” said the head of the Russian Foreign Ministry, expressing hope for that "a few sane minds in the West" understand the true essence of the current situation.

At the same time, Kyiv is calling on Western countries to supply heavy weapons "as soon as possible." “I spoke with my German colleague [German Foreign Minister Annalena Berbock] and informed her about the difficult situation in Donbas. We need to deliver more heavy weapons, especially MLRS, to repel Russian attacks as soon as possible,” Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba wrote on Twitter, adding that the discussion also touched on further sanctions against Russia and Ukraine’s EU candidate status.

Since mid-April, a number of countries have announced the supply of heavy weapons to Ukraine, including multiple launch rocket systems, howitzers, tanks, air defense systems, as well as anti-tank and missile systems. The [Netherlands](https://www.forbes.com/sites/sebastienroblin/2022/04/21/the-dutch-are-sending-huge-german-armored-howitzers-to-ukraine/?sh=1073da639380), France and Germany announced the supply of howitzers , Britain promised to supply Brimstone air-to-ground missiles to Ukraine.

The United States has announced the delivery of additional military aid to Ukraine, including 72 howitzers and 121 Phoenix Ghost tactical drones. For American howitzers, 144 thousand shells and 72 tactical vehicles for towing will also be sent to Ukraine. In addition, Kyiv will receive field equipment and spare parts from Washington.

Poland said it had already handed over to Ukraine almost all of its 240 T-72 tanks, as well as several dozen infantry fighting vehicles. Warsaw also supplied Kyiv with 2S1 Gvozdika self-propelled howitzers, Grad rocket launchers and handed over air-to-air missiles for MiG-29 and Su-27 aircraft.

Moscow considers the supply of weapons to Ukraine by Western countries to be "pumping up". “These are the actions that threaten the security of the continent, provoke instability,” emphasized the press secretary of the Russian president, Dmitry Peskov.