---
title: "Netflix stopped opening in Russia without VPN"
description: The streaming site in Russia only opens with a VPN, but users in other countries have also reported access issues. In early March, Netflix suspended operations in Russia.
date: 2022-05-27T10:48:22+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-27T10:48:22+03:00
images: 
- 0ywBJYb.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Rene Traut / IMAGO / TASS'
authors:
- RBC
categories:
- technology and media
tags:
- Netflix
- access to sites
- VPN
stories:
---

When you try to enter the site of the Netflix streaming service in Russia, the message “unavailable” is displayed, you can only open it using a VPN. [The publication DTF](https://dtf.ru/cinema/1208247-netflix-perestal-otkryvatsya-bez-vpn-u-polzovateley-iz-rossii) drew attention to this .

According to [Downdetector](https://downdetector.com/status/netflix/), problems with access to the service are also observed in other countries, in particular in the USA (526 reports by 10:00 on May 27), Canada (86 reports), Australia (57 reports), Great Britain (80 reports).

Roskomnadzor told RBC that they did not take restrictive measures against the video service. “In March 2022, the Netflix audiovisual service independently suspended operations in Russia. The video service will be excluded by Roskomnadzor from the register of audiovisual services.

RBC sent a request to Netflix.

Netflix [suspended](/news/62251da49a7947899dd17b63/) operations in Russia in early March. The company also temporarily stopped work on Russian original projects - the series Anna K, Loop, Nothing Special and the crime thriller Zato. Earlier, the service refused to broadcast 20 Russian federal TV channels, the mandatory broadcasting of which is required by Russian laws starting from March 1. At the end of March, Netflix removed its app from the App Store and Google Play in Russia.

DTF notes that, despite the restrictions, access to Netflix series and films in Russia was maintained, VPN was needed only for registering and replenishing an account. The service also continued to add Russian-language content: for earlier releases - with dubbing, and for later ones - with subtitles.

In April, Netflix reported that it had lost 700,000 users from that country due to the suspension of work in Russia.