---
title: "Russian companies will have to replace 4 thousand garbage trucks due to sanctions"
description: Waste haulers will have to replace nearly 4,000 foreign garbage trucks. Over five years, this will require ₽36.1 billion, estimated in the REO. The supply of such machines and spare parts for them ceased due to sanctions and the departure of a number of companies
date: 2022-06-01T06:00:10+03:00
lastmod: 2022-06-01T06:00:10+03:00
images:
- ZFdBnWC.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Vyacheslav Prokofiev / TASS'
authors:
- Natalia Paramonova
- RBC
categories:
- business
tags:
- trash
- Russian environmental operator
- Scania
- Volvo
- KAMAZ
stories:
- sanctions war
---

Within five years, waste collection operators must completely replace garbage trucks from Western countries. This was told to RBC by the head of the Russian Environmental Operator (REO; oversees the waste reform) Denis Butsaev.

After the start of the special operation in Ukraine, the EU imposed restrictions on the delivery of goods to Russia. Following this, the supply of spare parts for European cars stopped, and then the Japanese Nissan stopped production at Russian plants. According to the REO, in total, European and Japanese manufacturers account for 3.8 thousand garbage trucks in Russia, or 25% of the market.

Prior to the imposition of sanctions, companies were going to continue to buy new cars in Sweden, Germany, Italy and Japan. Now they will change them to Russian (manufactured by KamAZ and GAZ), Belarusian (MAZ) and Chinese. The purchase of cars during the planned renewal of vehicle fleets in 2022-2026 will cost 45 billion rubles. with an average price of a garbage truck of 9.5 million rubles. Of these, 36.1 billion rubles. will go to replace the European and Japanese garbage trucks, specify the press service of the REO.

The total number of garbage trucks will grow by 20%, since manufacturers in Russia, Belarus and China do not yet have analogues of European vehicles that are used to remove waste in large cities, says Varvara Petrushina, COO of RG-Techno. European heavy trucks will have to be replaced by more vehicles with lower payloads.

## What foreign garbage trucks were bought in Russia

According to the REO, 15.5 thousand garbage trucks operate in Russia. In addition to European and Japanese, about 6.1 thousand of them are KamAZ , 1.5 thousand - GAZ, 3.1 thousand - MAZ. [Equipment of Chinese and Korean production, as well as ZIL](https://www.kommersant.ru/doc/99632?) that stopped working, occupied about 5%.

According to the public procurement website, since 2017, companies have spent 1.9 billion rubles on imported garbage trucks. RT-Invest, the largest waste management operator in the Moscow region (should not hold tenders on the public procurement website), has bought 700 pieces of equipment over the past three years, of which half is foreign-made, worth about 6 billion rubles, the company's press service said. The press service of the Clean City Group of Companies (operating in five regions, including the Astrakhan and Rostov regions) reported that since 2019 they have purchased 120 garbage trucks on the chassis of the German MAN, Isuzu, Hino (Japan) worth from 9.5 million to RUB 16.5 million each.

According to REO statistics, the most popular foreign brands in Russia were Swedish Scania (1,000 garbage trucks), MAN (798 vehicles), Japanese Isuzu (567), Swedish Volvo (331) and German Mercedes (446).

The largest share of European equipment is in Moscow (54%), Moscow (53%), Smolensk (39%), Kaluga and Belgorod regions (18% each). RBC sent inquiries to waste collection operators in these five regions.

In early March, Volvo , Scania, MAN, Mercedes , and Iveco , which occupy 17% of the garbage truck fleet in Russia, suspended the sale of cars to the country due to the start of a special operation in Ukraine. After the imposition of EU sanctions , it became almost impossible to import spare parts for equipment from Europe to Russia, and the delivery time for components and prices increased, says Igor Orlov, head of public relations at MSK-NT (dealing with waste in the Moscow, Tula and Nizhny Novgorod regions). . But, according to him, the European cars that MSK-NT purchased earlier will continue to work, since there are a sufficient number of suppliers of spare parts from alternative manufacturers on the market.

{{<info>}}

### Where in Russia garbage trucks are produced

In 2019, the maximum volume of garbage trucks in Russia was produced - 2.8 thousand units, Oleg Afanasyev, head of the KamAZ press service, told RBC. Such machines are assembled by the Ryazhsky Automobile Repair Plant (2.2 thousand per year), the Mtsensk Municipal Engineering Plant, the Arzamas Municipal Engineering Plant (2 thousand per year), Ekomtekh (up to 500), as well as RG-Techno ( 450), Avtobau (180) and NTM (120).

{{</info>}}

## How has the cost of garbage trucks changed?

The garbage truck consists of two main parts: chassis and attachments (garbage compactor), says Petrushina. The main chassis suppliers in the Russian market were KamAZ, MAZ, GAZ, as well as Scania, Volvo, MAN, Mercedes, she explains. In the prime cost of the machine, the price of the chassis takes from 50%: the simpler the garbage truck, the greater part of the cost falls on the chassis. According to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, since the beginning of 2022, the cost of garbage trucks based on KamAZ has increased by 15-20%. First of all, this is due to restrictions on the supply of European components for attachments, the press service of the department specified.

Garbage trucks based on MAZ and KamAZ chassis have risen in price by 25%, says Orlov. This led to an increase in prices for garbage trucks based on KamAZ by 13%, from 7.5 million to 8.5 million rubles, Maxim Yudin, deputy general director of the trading house Ryazhsky Automobile Repair Plant, told RBC. The press service of KamAZ confirmed the increase in prices for the chassis, but noted the current downward trend in prices.

Equipment on the MAZ chassis has risen in price from 5 million rubles. in 2021 to 9 million rubles, says Polina Vergun, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Clean City Group of Companies. At the same time, its dealer MAZ-RUS in March promised to deliver 150 cars to the Clean City at best by the end of 2022. RBC sent a request to this company.

## How will the replacement of machines affect the cost of waste disposal?

After a complete transition to domestic technology, there will be no prerequisites for increasing the cost of waste disposal due to the replacement of the vehicle fleet, says Orlov. According to him, service maintenance of Russian garbage trucks is three to four times cheaper than that of European ones, and spare parts cost five to six times less on average.

But the overhaul of KamAZ needs to be carried out every 100-150 thousand km, and the MAN engine - every 400-500 thousand km, therefore, in five years, the operation of foreign equipment will be cheaper, even taking into account higher lease payments, the press service indicates. Citymatic (engaged in waste treatment in seven regions, including the Volgograd and Nizhny Novgorod regions). The service life of vehicles based on KamAZ is about three years, says Avtobau's leading specialist Vyacheslav Valkov. A similar indicator for the European chassis is seven to ten years.

After the departure of European manufacturers from Russia, experts expect a reduction in the effective operation of the chassis by 10-15%. Ecomtech founder Pavel Chernikov believes that due to the increase in the number of cars in the fleet, more drivers will be needed, and more frequent breakdowns of Russian cars will increase the staff of mechanics and repair shops.

In addition, garbage operators in most cases leased vehicles at 10-12% per annum, says Chernikov. At the end of February, the key rate of the Central Bank rose to 20%, followed by an increase in the cost of leasing: the car went up from 10 million to 15.5 million rubles, he clarifies. Since then, the regulator has reduced the rate to 11%, and after that the leasing rate will also be reduced to 16-19%, Vasily Govorkov, director of leasing products at Stone-XXI, predicts. As a result, the garbage truck will cost 13 million rubles.

However, companies will not be able to pass on additional costs to customers. Waste disposal rates are regulated by the Federal Antimonopoly Service, they cannot be increased by more than 4-5% per year, remind the press service of the REO. Butsaev, speaking at a round table in the Federation Council on May 24, said that by the end of 2022 the tariff could increase by 5%.

