---
title: "The Russian Embassy called the message about the murder of Russians in the Central African Republic “stuffing”"
description: The report about the murder of Russians in the Central African Republic is not true, the Russian embassy said. Earlier, Anadolu reported the death of "two mercenaries of the Russian PMC Wagner" in this country.
date: 2022-05-30T17:15:33+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-30T17:15:33+03:00
images:
- qMCKH9o.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Spencer Platt/Getty Images'
authors:
- Natalia Demchenko
- Margarita Ovsyannikova
categories:
tags:
stories:
---

The Russian embassy in the Central African Republic (CAR) called untrue information about the murder of two Russians in this country, RBC was told in the diplomatic mission.

“The report of the Turkish news agency Anadolu is not true. Most likely, this is information stuffing from the opposition in order to destabilize the situation in the country,” the embassy said in a statement.

Earlier, the Turkish Anadolu agency [reported](https://www.aa.com.tr/ru/%D0%BC%D0%B8%D1%80/%D0%B2-%D1%86%D0%B0%D1%80-%D1%83%D0%B1%D0%B8%D1%82%D1%8B-%D0%B4%D0%B2%D0%B0-%D0%BD%D0%B0%D0%B5%D0%BC%D0%BD%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B0-%D0%B8%D0%B7-%D1%87%D0%B2%D0%BA-%D0%B2%D0%B0%D0%B3%D0%BD%D0%B5%D1%80-/2601068), citing the media, that “two mercenaries of the Russian PMC Wagner” were killed in the northwest of the Central African Republic. Which publication reported this, it did not specify.

According to the resource, the incident took place near the village of Juve in the Uam Pende region, where the rebel group "Coalition of Patriots for Change" "ambushed mercenaries."

{{<info>}}
Mercenary activity in Russia is prohibited by law: for participation in armed conflicts on the territory of another country, the Criminal Code [provides for](http://www.consultant.ru/document/cons_doc_LAW_10699/a9e28227f557dc1e6659c1d88613790bb3dddb5b/) up to seven years in prison (Article 359), for recruiting, training, financing a mercenary, “as well as his use in an armed conflict or hostilities” - up to 15 years in prison. There are no other laws regulating the sphere of PMCs in Russia.
{{</info>}}

In January, EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Josep Borrell said that Wagner's so-called private military company (PMC) controls all key security issues in the Central African Republic. He mentioned this PMC in the context of the situation in Mali, where two military coups took place during the year. The military, which came to power, refused to quickly hold elections and hand over rule to civilians, saying that members of the group "settled" in this country as well. Malian authorities have previously denied this .

Last December, the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union imposed sanctions against PMC Wagner and a number of individuals associated with it. The document stated that "the Wagner group is responsible for serious human rights violations in Ukraine, Syria, Libya, the Central African Republic (CAR), Sudan and Mozambique, including torture and extrajudicial, mass or arbitrary executions and killings" .

Sanctions were imposed against Dmitry Utkin, who in the document is called the founder and commander of the Wagner group, Stanislav Dychko, “a mercenary of the Wagner PMC”, Valery Zakharov, “a key figure in the command structure of the Wagner group”, and other persons involved, according to the EU, in the work of the organization. In 2017, the United States also imposed sanctions against PMCs and Utkin .

In 2016, Fontanka [wrote](https://www.fontanka.ru/2016/03/28/171/) that the non-existing de jure PMC was named "Wagner" after Utkin's call sign. Before founding this company, he served in the Pskov brigade of the GRU special forces, after being transferred to the reserve, he worked in the Moran Security Group, a private company that specializes in the protection of ships. In 2014, Utkin began commanding his own group of fighters, called Wagner PMCs. Interlocutors of RBC in 2016  said that she participated, among other things, in the battles for Palmyra in Syria.

The authorities of the United States and the European Union believe that "close ties, including financial ones, with the Wagner PMC" and the Russian businessman Yevgeny Prigozhin. So, in the fall of 2020, the EU announced that it supports the work of Wagner PMC mercenaries in Libya. Because of this, the United States and the European Union included Prigozhin on the sanctions list. Prigozhin himself denied involvement in the PMC Wagner and said that he was surprised even by the fact of its existence.