---
title: "Experts estimated the decline in the labor force in Russia by the end of the decade"
description: The workforce in Russia is aging and shrinking, according to the HSE report. The share of people under 40 in the labor force will decrease from 42% to 37.4% by 2030. Experts assessed the negative effects of demographic aging on the economy
date: 2022-06-01T08:00:20+03:00
lastmod: 2022-06-01T08:00:20+03:00
images:
- ElSFj4W.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Petr Kovalev / TASS'
authors:
- Inna Degotkova
- Ivan Tkachev
- rbc
categories:
- economics
tags:
- demography
- forecast
- work force
- NRU HSE
stories:
---

From 2019 to 2030, Russia will lose 1.9 million people from the labor force. This assessment in the average version of the demographic forecast was given by experts from the Higher School of Economics in the digest "Demographic Changes and Labor Supply in Russian Regions", which RBC got acquainted with.

Along with the reduction in the total workforce, its age composition will also change, they predict. By 2030, the share of those under 40 in the labor force will drop to 37.4% (from 42% in 2019). The aging of the workforce is accelerating as the smaller generation of the 1990s and 2000s enter working age, and raising the retirement age extends the working life of older generations of workers.

The aging of the workforce will cover all regions of the country, but HSE experts predict the most significant reduction in the share of young people in the capital region, St. Petersburg and the Leningrad Region. There, the population has grown rapidly with out-of-town workers arriving at a young age, but in the current decade they are moving into older age groups. But in regions that remain attractive to migrants (both internal and from other countries), the aging of the labor force will slow down, in contrast to those where the outflow of the population will continue.

{{<info>}}
Rosstat [made](https://rosstat.gov.ru/folder/313/document/72529) the last demographic forecast (for the period until 2036) at the end of 2019, that is, before the pandemic. The statistical agency will prepare the next forecast based on the analysis of the results of the All-Russian population census, which took place in 2021. Preliminary census results, which reflect only the population, were [released](https://rg.ru/2022/05/30/predvaritelnye-itogi-vserossijskoj-perepisi-naseleniia.html) at the end of May. As follows from them, since 2010, when the last census took place, a decrease in population has been recorded in three federal districts - the Far East (by 4.7%), the Volga (by 3.2%) and Siberian (by 2.2%). Total population data for each region will be released in June, and sex and age data in September.

{{</info>}}

## Forecast scenarios

As noted in the HSE report, the labor force is changing under the influence of three demographic factors: mortality, migration, as well as the number of young people entering the labor market and those who have reached retirement age. HSE experts compiled three forecast options taking into account the mortality rate reflected in the life expectancy indicator (LE) and migration growth, plus a fourth scenario - without taking into account migration at all. Life expectancy for a given year is a model indicator that depends on the mortality rate in the country and accumulates the mortality rates of all age groups. In 2021, life expectancy in Russia was 70.1 years.

- The "medium", basic version of the forecast actually reflects the current trends, taking into account overcoming the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, the authors note. It will reduce the workforce from 74.7 million in 2019 to 72.8 million in 2030. At the same time, life expectancy in Russia increases to 74.9 years, and the average annual migration growth for the entire forecast period will be approximately 250 thousand people. For comparison: in 2015-2019 it was about 230 thousand. From 2030 to 2035, the labor force, on the contrary, will increase by 400 thousand people.
- In the optimistic, “high” version of the forecast, Russia will lose only 500 thousand people from the labor force by 2030 (the figure will decrease from 74.7 million in 2019 to 74.2 million), and over the next five years it will make up for losses by 1.5 million people. This scenario meets the standards [stated](http://kremlin.ru/events/president/news/63728) in the national development goals of Russia and assumes a dynamic socio-economic development of the country with a high demand for labor. In this case, life expectancy for the entire country in 2030 will reach 77.7 years, and the average annual migration increase in 2022-2034 will be about 400 thousand people.
- In a negative set of circumstances (the “low” version of the forecast), the country will face a reduction in the labor force by 3 million people to 71.7 million, and by 2035 this figure will decrease by another 600 thousand. This scenario reflects the crisis economic development of the country, in It is based on a slow pace of increase in life expectancy and a migration increase that is decreasing every year.

The last prognostic variant "Average without migration" repeats the scenarios of fertility and mortality of the average variant with zero migration gain. It allows assessing the impact of migration on the dynamics of the number and composition of the labor force. In it, the labor force will decrease by 3.3 million people, to 71.4 million by 2030, and will decrease by another 600 thousand over the next five years.

## Effects for the economy

Population aging is typical for most developed countries, but it becomes a serious challenge for the Russian economy, the digest says. According to experts, the size and composition of the labor force in the country will largely be determined by the degree of increased economic activity at older ages, as well as the ability of the regions to attract migrants, both long-term and temporary workers.

To solve the problem of aging, a set of solutions is needed, said one of the authors of the study, director of the HSE Institute of Demography, Mikhail Denisenko. “Population policy measures are an increase in the birth rate and the migration of young people, and economic measures are investment in human capital (health and education) and an increase in labor productivity,” he told RBC.

[The experts of the Bank of Russia warned](https://econs.online/articles/ekonomika/starenie-naseleniya/) that the aging of the population is slowing down the economy in an article on the Econs portal. They estimate that a shrinking working-age population leads to lower productivity (the skills of older workers become obsolete and they are less motivated) and aggregate savings (they decline as the proportion of older people in the population increases), leading to slower investment and economic growth. Central Bank experts also noted a negative effect on inflation: the elderly have reduced consumer spending, which reduces aggregate demand and may affect prices.

Dmitry Kulikov, Director of the ACRA Sovereign and Regional Ratings Group, recalls that at the dawn of the development of a market economy, Russia received a “demographic dividend”, but its positive effect has already leveled off.

We are talking about the fact that during the transition period in the 1990s, the population was mostly young. Between 1995 and 2010, the number of Russians of working age increased while the total population declined, the World Bank [pointed out](https://documents1.worldbank.org/curated/en/820371468190168559/pdf/99487-RUSSIAN-WP-PUBLIC-Box393204B-silver-aging-rus-web.pdf) in a study on population aging in Russia. The institute estimates that the "demographic dividend" provided about one-third of Russia's GDP growth from 1997 to 2011.

In World Bank calculations, a 1% increase in the share of the working-age population, net of migration, would mean a 1.6% increase in GDP per capita. According to experts from the Central Bank, [citing](https://econs.online/articles/ekonomika/starenie-naseleniya/) the World Bank, the aging of Russia's population may cost economic growth slowdown in the amount of up to 1-1.5% of GDP per year.

