---
title: "The volume of relief for large borrowers reached 50% of banks' capital stock"
description: Since the end of February, Russian banks have restructured debts of 3.3 trillion rubles to their corporate clients. A significant role in this was played by fixing payments on loans with floating rates.
date: 2022-05-31T16:00:22+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T16:00:22+03:00
images:
- Al4hLxp.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Vladislav Shatilo / RBC'
authors: 
- Julia Koshkina
categories:
- finances
tags:
- Banks
- business loans
- loan restructuring
- Bank of Russia
stories:
---

Against the backdrop of Russia's military operation in Ukraine, sanctions and the deteriorating situation in the economy, Russian banks have significantly increased the restructuring of potentially problematic corporate loans, follows from the financial stability review from the Bank of Russia. According to the regulator, since the end of February, market participants have revised the terms of loans for 3.3 trillion rubles, which account for 6.3% of the corporate portfolio.

“The demand for restructuring from large companies has exceeded the value that was observed at the beginning of the pandemic,” the Central Bank points out.

As noted in the review, many banks before the crisis had a capital buffer, through which they can cover losses if, after restructuring, borrowers do not return to debt servicing. In the sector as a whole, it amounted to 6.6 trillion rubles, that is, the volume of restructured loans already accounts for 54% of the available buffer.

“However, the total amount of credit losses of banks in the future may be higher, as high uncertainty remains about the stability of individual large companies and entire sectors of the economy, a number of investment projects that have been launched may turn out to be ineffective,” warns the Central Bank. In addition, the regulator notes that the capital stock is unevenly distributed among banks.

## Which companies have been helped by banks

Loan relief was mainly given to borrowers from the chemical industry, mining, the oil and gas industry and those who conduct real estate transactions, the review says.

At the same time, half of the restructurings (3.2% of the portfolio of loans to large companies) concerned loans with floating rates. In early March, after a sharp rise in the key rate to 20%, business began to complain about the worsening conditions on such loans. They accounted for about 40% of the portfolio of banks.

As a result, the Ministry of Economic Development and the Bank of Russia prepared amendments to the legislation to give companies the opportunity to temporarily fix interest rates on loans. Not all borrowers took advantage of this relief, it follows from the data of the Central Bank: by May 17, loans worth 1.8 trillion rubles were restructured under such conditions. This is 9% of the debt of large companies on loans with a variable rate. However, the renegotiation of the terms of such loans made a significant contribution to the restructuring statistics.

“Despite the fact that the figure looks quite large, 6% and higher than in the first months of covid, you need to understand that most of these restrictions are related to the law on lowering or smoothly raising interest rates on loans with floating rates. <...> These restructurings are not directly related to credit risk,” said Ksenia Yudaeva, First Deputy Chairman of the Central Bank, at a briefing. However, she noted that the credit risk in the corporate segment will materialize, but the Bank of Russia does not yet have estimates to what extent this will happen.

## What risks does this pose for banks?

Since the beginning of March, the Bank of Russia has allowed lenders not to create additional provisions for restructured loans if the financial situation of borrowers has worsened due to sanctions after February 18. The relaxations are valid until the end of the year, but the head of the Central Bank, Elvira Nabiullina, did not rule out that they would be extended. According to her, a decision on this will be made in October-November and, perhaps, the regulator will establish a phased exit from the easing.

In general, the share of bad loans in the corporate portfolio of banks decreased and by February 1 amounted to 7.1%.

Although borrowers have not yet entered into default, banks are already suffering losses due to restructuring. Earlier, the board of directors of Sberbank and VTB, German Gref and Andrey Kostin , warned the government about losses due to temporary fixing of floating rates on business loans. The revision of the conditions for such corporate borrowers will lead to losses of Sberbank at the level of 127 billion rubles, VTB - about 73 billion rubles, it was noted in a letter from top managers to the government.

{{<info>}}

### Pandemic experience of restructuring

The Bank of Russia gave market participants similar relief on the creation of provisions for restructured loans during the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic. However, large borrowers began to apply to banks for a review of loan conditions only in July 2020. According to the Central Bank, from March 20, 2020 to June 30, 2021, loans worth 6.1 trillion rubles, or 16.5% of the total portfolio of 33 largest banks, were subject to restructuring ( [.pdf](https://www.cbr.ru/Collection/Collection/File/36951/drknb_23_2021.pdf) ).

The Bank of Russia predicted that up to 40% of such loans could become problematic. The debt of the most unstable large corporate clients was initially estimated at 2.08 trillion rubles, and then at 2.5 trillion rubles. By July 1, loans to businesses worth 150 billion rubles were in arrears, an analysis of the Central Bank showed ( .pdf ). At that time, banks formed reserves for restructured loans for 721 billion rubles, about the same amount (725 billion rubles) could be required to cover possible problems.

{{</info>}}