---
title: "Biden ruled out transferring missiles capable of hitting Russia to Ukraine"
description: CNN and NYT reported Washington's intention to transfer MLRS to Ukraine, which Kyiv is seeking. The Pentagon did not confirm this, and Biden ruled out sending systems capable of striking Russia. Medvedev called the decision reasonable
date: 2022-05-30T16:45:30+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-30T16:45:30+03:00
images:
- Z3fl0Aq.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images'
authors:
- Natalia Anisimova
categories:
- politics
tags:
- Joe Biden
- arms shipments
- Ukraine
- MLRS
- USA
stories:
- Military operation in Ukraine
---

The United States will not supply Ukraine with missile systems capable of reaching Russian territory. This was announced by the President of the United States Joe Biden, reports [Reuters](http://www.reuters.com/).

Deputy Chairman of the Russian Security Council Dmitry Medvedev called Biden's statement reasonable. “Otherwise, when attacking our cities, the Russian Armed Forces would have fulfilled their threat and struck at the centers for making these criminal decisions,” he [wrote](https://t.me/medvedev_telegram/90) on Telegram.

The Ukrainian authorities have repeatedly said that the country needs the M142 HIMARS and M270 MLRS multiple launch rocket systems (MLRS) for defense and response to Russian strikes, but Washington has denied such supplies to Kiev, including due to fears that the Ukrainian military can use weapons to shell Russian territory.

However, last week CNN and The New York Times wrote that the Biden administration is still considering deliveries of MLRS to Ukraine and they may be included in a new military aid package. What kind of weapons in question was not specified, but the NYT indicated that most often the United States exports the M31 GMLRS with a range of fire from 70 to 500 km, depending on the ammunition.

The Pentagon did not confirm these data . “We know that the Ukrainian side is requesting both privately and openly multiple launch rocket systems. But I will not talk about decisions that have not yet been made, ”said department spokesman John Kirby.

Politico [wrote](https://www.politico.com/news/2022/05/18/biden-resists-ukrainian-demands-long-range-rocket-launchers-00033473) that over the past months, Washington has been transferring to Kiev old Soviet-era missile systems stored in the warehouses of allied countries.

Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said that the supply of weapons to Ukraine capable of reaching Russian territory would be "a major step towards an unacceptable escalation," which Moscow warned the West about. Earlier, he said that NATO, by supplying weapons to Ukraine, is entering into a proxy war with Russia. Russian Ambassador to Washington Anatoly Antonov, in turn , demanded that the United States stop "pumping" Ukraine with weapons.

Since the beginning of the Russian military special operation in Ukraine, Western countries and NATO have supplied Kyiv with several shipments of weapons, but at the same time refrained from transferring heavy equipment due to fears about Moscow's reaction. Deliveries of such weapons began only in the second half of April.

Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmitry Kuleba [said](https://interfax.com.ua/news/general/834736.html) that Kiev is in critical need of MLRS, and allies who could provide them are waiting for a signal from the United States: “Washington must keep its promise and provide us with multiple launch rocket systems as soon as possible, others will follow.”


