---
title: "Ukrainian army commanders arrested in absentia in genocide case in Moscow"
description: Two commanders of the Ukrainian army were arrested in absentia on charges of genocide and war crimes against Russian servicemen, the Basmanny Court reported. The preventive measure will be in effect from the moment they are detained in Russia.
date: 2022-05-30T16:52:19+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-30T16:52:19+03:00
images:
- C3JHzcS.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Ekaterina Kuzmina / RBC'
authors:
- Natalia Demchenko
- Lyubov Poryvaeva
categories:
- politics
tags:
stories:
---

The Basmanny Court of Moscow has arrested in absentia two commanders of the Armed Forces of Ukraine (APU), Alexei Makhov and Andrei Polyakov, in the case of genocide and ill-treatment of captured Russian military, RBC was told in the press service of the court.

“They are accused of crimes under Art. 356 (use of prohibited means and methods of warfare) and 357 (genocide) of the Russian Criminal Code,” they said.

As RBC clarified in court, Polyakov Andrey Olegovich is the commander of the 53rd mechanized brigade of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and Makhov Aleksey Vladimirovich is the commander of the 2nd airborne assault battalion of the 95th separate airborne assault brigade of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The preventive measure will be in effect from the moment they are detained in Russia or extradited to the country.

Both commanders of the Armed Forces of Ukraine have been put on the international wanted list, [TASS reports](http://www.tass.ru/) with reference to the press service of the court.

As [reported](https://dan-news.info/defence/bezsonov-nazval-soedinenie-vsu-prichastnoe-k-obstrelu-shkoly-na-severe-gorlovki/) by the Donetsk News Agency, in 2019 the People's Militia of the DPR held the servicemen of the 53rd brigade of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, commanded by Polyakov, responsible for shelling Gorlovka and violating the truce .

In early April, the Russian Investigative Committee charged 22 high-ranking Ukrainian military officers with genocide of the Russian-speaking population in Donbass, including ex-Minister of Defense Valeriy Heletey and former head of the General Staff Viktor Muzhenko.

Investigators established facts of ill-treatment of the civilian population, as well as torture of military and civilians, kidnapping, illegal imprisonment, genocide and extremism, the UK reported. In total, 590 criminal cases were initiated in connection with the events in Ukraine, more than 169 thousand people were interrogated during the investigation, 42 thousand citizens were recognized as victims, including 7.4 thousand minors.

According to [the data of](http://www.cdep.ru/index.php?id=79&item=6120) the Judicial Department at the Supreme Court of Russia for the past year, there are no convicts under the article on genocide in the country.

Since February 24, Russia has been conducting a military special operation on the territory of Ukraine. President Vladimir Putin called its goal the protection of the population of Donbass from "genocide" by the Kyiv authorities, as well as the "demilitarization" and "denazification" of Ukraine. According to him, the Ukrainian authorities carried out two "punitive" operations against the inhabitants of the east of the country and began to persecute those who did not support the coup d'état in Ukraine in 2014. The Ukrainian authorities, in response to the special operation, declared martial law and general mobilization. Kyiv also severed diplomatic relations with Moscow. Art. 357 of the Criminal Code (genocide) provides for punishment up to life imprisonment. Crimes under Art. 356 (use of prohibited means and methods of warfare) are punishable by imprisonment for up to 20 years.