---
title: "The Pentagon saw a logical way out of the situation in Ukraine in the negotiations"
description: The logical way out of the situation in Ukraine is negotiations between the parties, Milli believes. The Pentagon sees the threat of escalation, and therefore maintain contact with Moscow. Medinsky said that Kyiv froze the talks on its own initiative
date: 2022-05-31T05:32:23+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T05:32:23+03:00
images:
- vjiDb7N.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Zuma / TASS'
authors:
- Mikhail Dobrunov
categories:
- politics
tags:
stories:
- Military operation in Ukraine
---

The situation in Ukraine may become even more serious, in connection with this, the American authorities are making efforts to prevent the escalation of the conflict, it would be reasonable to resolve it through diplomacy, General Mark Milley, chairman of the US Armed Forces Joint Chiefs of Staff, said [in an interview](https://video.foxnews.com/v/6307022456112#sp=show-clips) with Fox News.

“There is always the possibility of escalation, we need to manage it and assess the chance of escalation <...>. I think solving the situation through negotiations would be a logical choice,” the general said.

Milley pointed out that US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin is having a dialogue with his Russian counterpart Sergei Shoigu, who is talking to his colleague, Chief of the General Staff Valery Gerasimov. He also explained that contact is being maintained in order to "not allow this to grow into something more terrible."

The conversation between Shoigu and Lloyd took place  on May 13 and was the first in three months, since mid-February. “Topical issues of international security were discussed, including the situation in Ukraine,” the Russian Defense Ministry said in a statement.

Representatives of Russia and Ukraine took part in several rounds of negotiations. The first three took place in Belarus; the last face-to-face meeting was held at the end of March in Istanbul's Dolmabahce Palace, during which the Ukrainian delegation conveyed to their Russian colleagues their proposals for resolving the situation. Russia sent response documents, but received no response, the head of the Russian delegation, Vladimir Medinsky , said later. “Freezing the talks is entirely the initiative of Ukraine,” he concluded.

Russia intends to complete the special operation in Ukraine through negotiations, Dmitry Peskov, a spokesman for the Russian president, said in early April. He noted that Moscow would like the consent of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to the conditions offered to him. At the end of May, President Vladimir Putin assured that Russia was ready to resume negotiations.

The Ukrainian authorities reported that what happened in Bucha had an impact on the course of the negotiations, leaving a "certain imprint" on them. “Ukrainian society is now much more negative about any negotiation concept that concerns Russia,” said Mikhail Podolyak, adviser to the head of the office of the President of Ukraine. Putin also spoke about the impact of these events on the negotiations: he considers the events in Bucha a “provocation”.

Zelensky insists that negotiations between Russia and Ukraine should continue at the level of presidents and without intermediaries. “Only with him. Without any intermediaries. And on the terms of dialogue, and not on the terms of ultimatums, ”he pointed out. The President of Ukraine noted that the inhabitants of the country “do not crave” his contact with the President of Russia, but such a conversation is necessary.

The Kremlin said that they allow a meeting between Putin and Zelensky, but before that, a document should be prepared that they would approve. A meeting under other circumstances is "hardly possible," Peskov stressed.

