---
title: "Russia: Experts named specialists at high risk of being laid off"
description: Most at risk are HR professionals, sales managers, designers, and administrative and housekeeping workers. Employers do not plan to fire accountants and lawyers
date: 2022-06-01T09:00:35+03:00
lastmod: 2022-06-01T09:00:35+03:00
images:
- nvumDla.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Kirill Kallinikov / RIA Novosti'
authors:
- Tatyana Zykina
- rbc
categories:
- business
tags:
- massive layoffs
- polls
- Department
stories:
---

In the next six months, HR specialists, sales managers, designers and administrative workers are more likely to be laid off than others, follows from the results of a joint study by the National Rating Agency (NRA) and the NAFI Analytical Center (available to RBC).

{{<info>}}
The survey was conducted by the NAFI Analytical Center in May 2022, the respondents were 500 entrepreneurs working in the field of micro, small and medium-sized businesses in all major sectors of the economy from all federal districts. These are business owners, top officials of companies and individual entrepreneurs.
{{</info>}}

Sales managers are most at risk of being laid off (17% of companies declare plans to reduce the number of these employees). The same outcome may affect secretaries, couriers and other employees of the administrative and economic department (15%), designers and HR specialists (13% each), follows from the results of the survey.

Experts considered the financial industry to be the most stable industry. 68% of employers do not plan to dismiss the personnel working in it, as well as accountants, however, the company will not recruit new employees either. The lowest risk of reduction remains for lawyers and administrative staff. 65% and 61% of firms, respectively, do not plan to change the number of employees in these areas.

At the same time, experts believe that within six months, entrepreneurs will both reduce and hire employees. The fact that in their field the demand for production personnel (workers, engineers, technologists) will increase was stated by 18% of respondents. They said they plan to hire more such employees in the near future. 16% of entrepreneurs announced their intention to increase the number of marketers, product specialists and analysts, another 14% of respondents are going to increase the staff of IT departments. Logistics specialists will also remain in demand for six months (this opinion was expressed by 12% of respondents), follows from the results of the survey.

At the end of January, Central Bank analysts analyzed the situation on the market and found out that at that time 28% of Russian companies were going to cut staff. In turn, Andrei Turchak, Secretary of the General Council of the United Russia party, said at the end of April that about 600,000 Russians were in a state of downtime or under threat of dismissal. As of January 1, according to Rosstat, 83.2 million people of working age lived in Russia. Then the results of a similar survey were published by the SuperJob job search service. The study said that in Russia for two months by 56 p.p. the number of published vacancies in the fields of IT and telecommunications has decreased. The demand for novice specialists has fallen the most.