---
title: "Russia cut off gas to the Netherlands due to refusal to pay in rubles"
description: The Dutch government has decided that paying for gas in rubles, as required by Moscow, poses too much risk. The country is going to eliminate the shortage of fuel after the rejection of Russian imports using liquefied gas
date: 2022-05-31T09:48:06+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T09:48:06+03:00
images:
- XD3VfBt.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Kirill Kukhmar / TASS'
authors:
- Natalia Demchenko
- RBC
categories:
- business
tags:
stories:
- Saction Wars
---

Gazprom stopped supplying gas to the Netherlands due to the country's refusal to pay in rubles, the company said in a Telegram [message](https://t.me/gazprom/748). From April 1, the President of Russia instructed to transfer payment for gas into rubles.

Gazprom completely stopped gas supplies to GasTerra BV (Netherlands) due to non-payment in rubles,” the company announced, adding that by the end of the working day on May 30, Gazprom Export had not received payment.

Under the new gas payment scheme, which has been in effect since April, foreign buyers from the list of unfriendly countries (the Russian government considers all EU countries, the United States, Great Britain and a number of other countries as such) must open two accounts with Gazprombank - in foreign currency and in rubles.

The bank must independently convert the funds received to the foreign currency account into rubles on the Moscow Exchange, and then credit them to the second account.

In mid-April, the Dutch government announced that it was not allowing the country's companies new payment rules, as this, according to Amsterdam, violates EU sanctions. The kingdom said it had prepared for a total gas shutdown by doubling its LNG import capacity. At the same time, the country's Ministry of Economy noted that it would be difficult for it to fill its storage facilities before next winter without supplies from Russia.

GasTerra announced that it will not comply with Gazprom's requirements to switch to a new fuel payment scheme on May 30th. The company believes that the new conditions for the purchase of Russian gas in rubles may lead to a violation of sanctions imposed by the European Union, as well as entail other financial and operational risks. So, for example, the latter, according to the company, include a mandatory requirement to open an account in a Russian bank and control over it "by the Russian regime." Gazprom responded by warning the company that it would stop fuel supplies.

The Netherlands was among the largest European buyers of Russian gas, ranking sixth after Germany, Italy, Turkey, Austria and France: in 2020, the country imported 11.8 billion cubic meters. m ([.pdf](https://www.gazprom.ru/f/posts/98/859460/presentation-press-conf-2021-05-20-ru.pdf)).