---
title: "The share of the yuan in trading in Russia increased by 14 times"
description: The volume of trading in the dollar is falling, while the euro and yuan are growing, the Central Bank estimated. The European currency is supported by a new gas payment scheme, and the yuan is gaining popularity among the population
date: 2022-05-31T15:00:22+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T15:00:22+03:00
images:
- xQj0ifR.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Zhengyi Xie / Cpressphoto / ZUMA Press / TASS'
authors:
- Margarita Mordovina
categories:
- finances
tags:
- yuan
- dollars
- currency trading
stories:
---

The share of the yuan in the volume of spot exchange trading has grown in recent months: back in January it was 0.5%, and in April it reached 7%, according to the Financial Stability Review of the Bank of Russia. At the same time, an increase in demand for the Chinese currency is also observed in the over-the-counter market.

The most active trading is in the yuan/ruble and yuan/dollar pairs, the yuan/euro pair is slightly less popular, the Central Bank notes. Active demand for the Chinese currency began to form from the beginning of March 2022, after the aggravation of the sanctions pressure, the review says (at the same time, the Central Bank introduced severe currency restrictions). Since that time, the yuan/ruble pair has seen stable trading volumes of 10–30 billion rubles. per day in the exchange and over-the-counter segments. In the yuan / dollar pair, the daily volume of exchange trading is 0.5 billion rubles, the volume of over-the-counter trading is “on average above 10 billion rubles,” the Bank of Russia estimated.

“Since the beginning of March, the interest of individuals in the yuan market has significantly increased, which they use to diversify their savings and invest part of their funds in financial instruments that are more reliable in terms of geopolitical risks,” the Bank of Russia stated. According to him, during the crisis, individuals purchased yuan on the stock exchange for a total of 27.3 billion rubles. At the same time, in January 2022, before the start of the special operation in Ukraine, individuals carried out single transactions with the yuan on the stock exchange, follows from the statistics of the Central Bank.

## How has the picture of currency trading on the exchange changed?

In February 2022, the total trading volume in the dollar / ruble pair with “for tomorrow” settlements amounted to 7.4 trillion rubles, RBC estimated based on data from the Moscow Exchange. At the same time, the average daily trading volume amounted to 370.2 billion rubles, and the average daily number of transactions was about 100 thousand. In the EUR/RUB pair in the same reporting period, the total monthly trading volume amounted to 1 trillion rubles, the average daily volume was 50.5 billion rubles. The number of transactions reached 12.6 thousand per day. The trading volume in the yuan/ruble pair in February 2022 amounted to only 27.3 billion rubles, on average, 933 transactions were made per day in the pair for a total of 1.3 billion rubles.

In March 2022, after the freezing of foreign exchange reserves of the Bank of Russia and the imposition of blocking sanctions (imply isolation from the dollar system) against the largest Russian banks, the total trading volume in the dollar/ruble pair on the Moscow Exchange decreased by 3.5 times, to 2.2 trillion rub., or 106.7 billion rubles. on average per day (3.5 times less than in February). At the same time, in the yuan/ruble pair, the monthly trading volume in March increased by more than seven times, to RUB 191.7 billion, and the average daily trading volume increased by the same amount, reaching RUB 9.1 billion in March. In the dollar / yuan pair, the monthly volume of transactions in March amounted to 24.9 billion rubles, while in February no transactions were made on the Moscow Exchange in this instrument, it follows from the data of the site.

In April, the downward trend in the volume of trading in the dollar and the increase in the volume of trading in the Chinese currency continued. Thus, the total volume of trading in the dollar / ruble pair decreased to 1.7 trillion rubles over the month. (in April 2021 - 5.2 trillion rubles), the average daily - up to 80.5 billion rubles. (in April 2021 - 235.4 billion rubles). At the same time, in the yuan/ruble pair in March, the total trading volume amounted to 289 billion rubles. On average, 18.5 thousand transactions were carried out per day for the amount of about 13.8 billion rubles. The share of the euro also increased. In April, the monthly trading volume in the euro/ruble pair reached 1.09 trillion against 715.9 billion rubles. for the same reporting period in 2021, the daily volume of transactions amounted to 48.5 billion rubles. against 32.5 billion rubles. in April last year.

In May 2022, the volume of trading on the exchange increased in all currencies. This was facilitated by a more active sale of foreign exchange earnings by exporters of raw materials due to the need to pay tax on the extraction of minerals. In the dollar / ruble pair, the total trading volume from May 1 to May 30 amounted to 2.15 trillion rubles. (in May 2021 - 3.4 trillion rubles), average daily - 126.7 billion rubles. (in May 2021 - 170.2 billion rubles). In the euro/ruble pair, the trading volume doubled compared to last year. This is due to the transition to paying for Russian gas under a new scheme, according to which foreign buyers send payments in foreign currency (mainly in euros) to their accounts with Gazprombank, which then converts them into rubles. This scheme increased the volume of trading in the euro / ruble pair on the stock exchange to 1.2 trillion rubles. per month and up to 73.4 billion rubles. per day. For comparison: in May 2021, the figures were 518.5 billion rubles. and 25.9 billion rubles. respectively.

The trading volume in the yuan/ruble pair in May 2022 remained approximately at the same level as in April - 284 billion rubles. per month and 16.7 billion rubles. per day. At the same time, compared to May 2021, the trading volume increased by 19 times.