---
title: 'Putin wished the head of Udmurtia "success" in the upcoming elections'
description: Alexander Brechalov, who has been in charge of Udmurtia since 2017, asked President Vladimir Putin to support his candidacy in the upcoming gubernatorial elections. The head of state in response wished him "success" and "all the best"
date: 2022-05-31T12:04:34+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T12:04:34+03:00
images: 
- Ape8npg.jpg
caption: 'Vladimir Putin (left) during a video meeting with Alexander Brechalov (Photo: kremlin.ru)'
authors:
- Natalia Demchenko
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
- Vladimir Putin
- Alexander Brechalov
- Udmurtia
- gubernatorial elections
stories:
---

President Vladimir Putin held a video meeting with the head of Udmurtia Alexander Brechalov, [according](http://kremlin.ru/events/president/news/68533) to the Kremlin website.

Brechalov presented the president with a short report on the state of affairs in the republic and, in conclusion, turned to him with a request to support his candidacy in the upcoming gubernatorial elections.

“I am ready and want to work further. If you support, then I would like to continue working in the republic and put forward my candidacy in the upcoming elections of the head of the Udmurt Republic,” said the head of the region.

"I wish you success! All the best,” Putin replied.

Brechalov also added that he would like to enlist the support of the president on four issues important for the region. According to him, the relevant letters were sent to the head of state. The President replied that he had previously studied all the appeals and gave the necessary instructions to the government. He also thanked the head of Udmurtia for his work.

The election of the head of Udmurtia will be held on a single voting day on September 11, 2022.

Brechalov was appointed interim head of Udmurtia in 2017, after the previous head of the region, Alexander Solovyov, was detained on charges of taking a bribe. In September of the same year, he was elected head of Udmurtia.

The current head of the region graduated from the Krasnodar Higher Military School. General Shtemenko, as well as the Moscow State Law Academy, worked as a lawyer in banking organizations. He was a member of the Board of Directors of Uniastrum Bank (in 2007-2014), vice-president and then [president](https://onf.ru/2013/09/01/brechalov-aleksandr-vladimirovich/) of the OPORA Russia small and medium-sized business organization (from 2008 to 2014) and co-chairman of the All-Russian Popular Front (ONF). From 2014 until the appointment of the Acting Head of Udmurtia, he was the Secretary of the Public Chamber of Russia, and was a member of the Presidential Anti-Corruption Council.