---
title: "Crimean authorities announced the transition of Kherson and Zaporozhye to Russian communications"
description: 
date: 2022-05-31T07:23:18+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T07:23:18+03:00
images:
- bKc4gGC.jpg
caption: 'An outlet selling SIM cards with Russian numbers in Kherson (Photo: Ivan Rodionov / RIA Novosti)'
authors:
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
- Kherson region
- Zaporozhye region
- Crimea
stories:
- Military operation in Ukraine
---

Residents of the Kherson and Zaporozhye regions now use Russian mobile communications and the Internet, Oleg Kryuchkov, adviser to the head of Crimea on information policy , told [RIA Novosti](http://ria.ru/).

The day before, May 30, Kirill Stremousov, deputy head of the military-civilian administration of the Kherson region, established after the region was taken under Russian control, asked the Russian leadership to “use the capabilities of Russian telecommunications companies to restore communications” in the region after the “shelling” by Ukraine, as a result of which The region was left without cellular communications and the Internet.

“Another Kyiv terrorist attack brought down communications in the Kherson and Zaporozhye regions. Russia played ahead of the curve. In the liberated territories, it is already exclusively Russian Internet and communications. In fact, this is the end of Ukrainian propaganda, [Ukrainian President Volodymyr] Zelensky’s towers of lies have fallen,” Kryuchkov said.

According to the adviser, residents of both regions can now purchase Russian SIM cards to use the connection.

A dual-currency zone operates in both regions : residents can pay both in hryvnia and in rubles, but in the future it is planned to switch exclusively to rubles. President Vladimir Putin signed a decree making it easier for residents of the two regions to obtain Russian citizenship. 