---
title: "The debt burden of Russians reached a new record before the crisis"
description: The debt burden of citizens increased in the second half of last year, the Central Bank said. But the shock of the new crisis put the process on hold.
date: 2022-05-31T15:00:33+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T15:00:33+03:00
images:
- pwys8MW.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Mikhail Grebenshchikov / RBC'
authors:
- Julia Koshkina
categories:
- finances
tags:
stories:
---

By the beginning of the crisis, the Russians came in a state of maximum debt load over the entire period of observation, the Bank of Russia said. As of January 1, 2022, the level of debt burden of citizens for all types of loans and loans reached a new record - 10.6%. For half a year since the last measurement, the indicator reflecting the payments of borrowers on loans relative to the income of the population (with and without loans) increased by 0.4 percentage points. The growth rate of the debt burden has hardly slowed down compared to the dynamics of the first half of 2021, but since February, the Bank of Russia has recorded a radical change in market conditions that affect the level of household debt burden.

“Whether the debt burden will grow or not will depend on two factors - the growth rate of lending (both mortgage and unsecured) and the growth rate of income [of the population],” First Deputy Chairman of the Central Bank Ksenia Yudaeva said at a briefing.

## New factors affecting debt load

- **Decline in unsecured lending.** “Since the crisis began, citizens have preferred to postpone the decision to apply for a loan in the face of rising lending costs and increased economic uncertainty,” the Central Bank states. According to the regulator, in the first quarter, the number of applications for consumer loans fell by 44% compared to the previous quarter.

The population's debt on unsecured loans decreased by 1.9% in March and by 1.5% in April. Against this background, the share of loans issued to the most indebted borrowers, those who spend more than 80% of their monthly income on servicing loans (PTI more than 80%), has decreased. In March, the indicator amounted to 31.6%, which is 1.8 p.p. below the levels of the end of last year.

Prior to the crisis, the Bank of Russia took measures to cool the unsecured lending market by raising risk ratios and planning to introduce direct quantitative restrictions on the issuance of such loans from July 1. But since the beginning of the crisis, the Central Bank abandoned these measures and allowed banks to dissolve the previously accumulated capital buffer.

- **Substitution with preferential programs in mortgages.** The mortgage portfolio of banks began to decline not as fast as the pool of unsecured loans: in March, the growth in mortgages remained at a high level of 2.1%, a decline (by 0.1%) was recorded only in April. As noted in the review, mortgages are supported by state preferential lending programs - for example, in March they accounted for 43% of the volume of loans issued in this segment.

However, the Bank of Russia points to the risks of expanding such programs. The minimum down payment on a preferential mortgage is 15% of the cost of housing, which is lower on average than in other mortgage segments. “In the event of a significant reduction in prices, some borrowers in the primary mortgage segment will have debts exceeding the current cost of the housing they have purchased,” warns the Central Bank.

- **Increased risks of growth in arrears.** The regulator has not yet recorded a deterioration in the quality of the retail portfolio of banks: the share of overdue debt (NPL, loans with overdue payments over 90 days) in the consumer loans segment is 8%, and in mortgages - only 0.7%.

But standard delinquency rates do not take into account how the portfolio of banks has changed since March, the Central Bank emphasizes. Just from this month, the Bank of Russia saw the growth of "leading indicators of credit risk." The share of consumer loans for which a payment was missed for the first time in March-April increased from 5.3% to 7.5%. “This level corresponds to the values ​​of 2021, the synchronous growth of the indicator for most banks reflects a systematic increase in credit risk caused by macroeconomic factors,” the review says. The Bank of Russia notes that Russian borrowers are now less likely to apply for credit holidays than during the pandemic, but the deterioration in the quality of the bank portfolio may be more significant than in the previous crisis.

As noted in the review, the slowdown in lending during the crisis exacerbates the economic downturn and causes a further deterioration in the quality of loans. “The countercyclical policy of the Bank of Russia is directed against this vicious circle,” the Central Bank emphasizes. These are regulatory easing for banks on reserves, the dissolution of previously created capital buffers to stimulate lending, and government programs aimed at the same. In general, the Central Bank qualifies the quality of the retail portfolio of banks as stable.

