---
title: "The EU called the condition for assistance in the restoration of Ukraine"
description: Ukraine should reform the administrative and judicial systems, as well as improve the fight against corruption, this is a condition for helping to rebuild the country, the head of the EC said. In Kyiv, they called for the creation of an analogue of the Marshall Plan
date: 2022-05-31T03:19:17+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T08:51:54+03:00
images:
- qYKLUoA.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Staphanie Lecocq / EPA / TASS'
authors:
- Mikhail Dobrunov
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
- Ukraine
- European Union
- recovery
- Ursula von der Leyen
- fight against corruption
- reforms
stories:
---

The leaders of the European Union held intensive negotiations on the restoration of Ukraine, but this process is directly related to the reforms carried out by the Ukrainian authorities, said the head of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen at a press conference. The broadcast was on Twitter.

The head of the EC said that European countries, together with Washington, intend to develop a way to attract investment to restore Ukraine, but this process must be accompanied by reforms.

“Governance reforms, [improving] the independence of the judiciary, fighting corruption to create a positive environment for the business sector,” von der Leyen said. She also added that the EU is working on a mechanism to provide Ukraine with an emergency package of macro-financial assistance in the amount of €9 billion.

As a result of the meeting, it was decided to consider a platform for the restoration of Ukraine, which will unite the authorities of the country, the EU, the European Investment Bank, international partners, financial institutions and other "interested parties", it is [said on the website](https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/05/31/european-council-conclusions-on-ukraine-30-may-2022/) of the European Council, Kiev will have to take measures to combat corruption in accordance with the European course of Ukraine. The European Council invited the European Commission to make relevant proposals.

Earlier, the head of the EC said that in order to restore Ukraine, they could send frozen funds on the accounts of Russians who fell under sanctions, and this issue is being studied by lawyers. “Russia must also make its contribution,” von der Leyen stressed. According to [Reuters](http://www.reuters.com/), at a meeting on May 30, European leaders intended to discuss the creation of a special RebuildUkraine fund, seized assets and loans are considered as sources of its financing.

It will take $600 billion to restore Ukraine, President Volodymyr Zelensky estimated in early May. The head of the European Investment Bank, Werner Hoyer, pointed out that “trillions of euros” are needed for this. Later, Zelensky announced that Kiev was preparing an ambitious plan to restore Ukraine, but international assistance was needed, which would become an analogue of the Marshall plan.

Moscow criticized proposals to withdraw the frozen accounts of Russian entrepreneurs who fell under sanctions. “These are absolutely honest, legal entrepreneurs. They were robbed. They were robbed in the same way that travelers in the Wild West were robbed with the help of a Smith and Wesson,” Russian presidential spokesman Dmitry Peskov said regarding the blocking of these assets.

The use of businessmen's funds to finance Ukraine would be an "illegal, blatant" decision, the Kremlin spokesman assessed.