---
title: "Erdogan promised Zelensky support in continuing negotiations with Russia"
description: 
date: 2022-05-31T00:01:35+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T00:01:35+03:00
images:
- skevK53.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Antonio Masiello/Getty Images'
authors:
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
stories:
- Military operation in Ukraine
---

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan held talks with his Ukrainian counterpart Vladimir Zelensky and promised him to continue to mediate in the negotiation process between Russia and Ukraine, [Anadolu](https://www.aa.com.tr/tr/gundem/cumhurbaskani-erdogan-ukrayna-devlet-baskani-zelenski-ile-telefonda-gorustu/2601483) news agency reported .

Erdogan noted that even before that he had made every effort to continue the negotiation process between Moscow and Kyiv and would continue to support this issue in the future. In addition, the Turkish leader stressed the importance of organizing a safe corridor for transporting agricultural products from Ukraine by sea. Erdogan also expressed interest in Turkey's participation in the work of the control center, which can be created with the participation of Russia, Ukraine and the UN. The head of state said that he had a positive attitude towards the placement of such a center in Istanbul.

Zelensky on Twitter said that during the conversation the topics of “threats to food security” and “ways to unblock Ukrainian ports” were raised, and issues of “security cooperation” were also discussed.

Earlier, on May 30, Erdogan held talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin. The Turkish leader invited the Russian to organize a meeting of representatives of Russia, Ukraine and the UN in Istanbul, he also called for steps to minimize the negative consequences of hostilities and build confidence between the parties. Putin, in turn, focused on ensuring safe navigation and eliminating the threat of mines in the Black and Azov Seas and announced Moscow's readiness to facilitate the transit of goods, including grain, from Ukrainian ports in coordination with Ankara.

In addition, the Russian president confirmed that, subject to the lifting of sanctions, Russia can export "substantial volumes of fertilizers and agricultural products" to the world market.