---
title: "The European Union agreed to disconnect Sberbank from SWIFT"
description: Sberbank will be disconnected from the SWIFT payment system, the EU countries have agreed. Von der Leyen said that Sberbank received special attention because of its significant share in the country's banking sector. Earlier seven Russian banks were disconnected from SWIFT.
date: 2022-05-31T01:03:06+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T01:03:06+03:00
images:
- cuNzNz2.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Vyacheslav Prokofiev / TASS'
authors:
- Mikhail Dobrunov
- Julia Koshkina
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
- SWIFT
- European Union
- Sberbank
- sanctions
stories:
- sactions war
---

The EU countries have agreed to disconnect Sberbank from the interbank system for transferring information and making payments SWIFT as part of the sixth package of sanctions, the head of the European Council, Charles Michel, said on Twitter.

“This package of sanctions includes other tough measures: the de-swifting of the largest Russian bank, Sberbank,” Michel wrote.

The European Commission spoke about the study of possible measures against Sberbank in mid-April, the head of the EC, Ursula von der Leyen , indicated that it was given special attention among other Russian banks. “Especially [we are studying] Sberbank, which accounts for 37% of this sector,” she explained. The head of European diplomacy, Josep Borrell, said in early May that "there will be more Russian banks that will disconnect from the SWIFT system."

The press service of Sberbank later reported that the bank was operating normally. “Basic restrictions are already in place. Disconnecting from SWIFT does not change the current situation in international settlements. Domestic transactions do not depend on SWIFT and will be carried out by the bank in the standard mode," Sberbank said.

As Bloomberg wrote at the end of April, Germany had previously opposed the imposition of tough sanctions against Sberbank, including on the issue of disconnecting from SWIFT. In Berlin, they feared that these measures would interfere with energy-related financial transactions with Sberbank, but the German authorities then found alternative energy suppliers. Because of this, Berlin decided to agree to tough sanctions against Sberbank and a phased ban on the import of Russian-made oil, according to diplomatic interlocutors of the agency and documents that Bloomberg managed to get acquainted with .

Blocking sanctions against Sberbank have already been introduced in the United States, the decision provides for the freezing of bank assets and the introduction of a ban on citizens and companies from the United States to do business with them. At the same time, the bank assured that this would not entail a “significant impact on work” and would not affect the service to the residents of Russia. Measures against Sberbank were also taken in the UK, the authorities of the kingdom closed the organization's correspondent accounts in British banks and banned Sberbank from conducting clearing operations in pounds sterling. Later, the British authorities also froze the assets of Sberbank.

In early April, the bank stopped all transfers abroad in foreign currency. “Transfers abroad in bank branches in rubles are available to residents in the usual mode without restrictions,” Sberbank said, explaining the introduction of such a measure by restrictions on correspondent accounts in foreign banks.

Earlier, about three months ago, the European Union approved the disconnection of seven Russian banks from SWIFT - VTB, Novikombank, Promsvyazbank, VEB.RF, Sovcombank, Rossiya and Otkritie. SWIFT assured that they intend to comply with the restrictive measures introduced against Russian banks.

The Russian ambassador to the US, Anatoly Antonov , called US sanctions against Sberbank in April a "direct blow" to ordinary Russians. “Most Russians keep their savings [in these banks],” he said. The diplomat accused the United States of "non-stop sanctions attacks."