---
title: Orban announced the "liberation" of Hungary from the embargo on oil from Russia
description: Hungary will not be affected by restrictions on oil imports from Russia, Orban said, deliveries through the pipeline are temporarily allowed. The EU noted that such a measure is only a temporary compromise, countries should find other suppliers
date: 2022-05-31T04:30:00+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T04:30:00+03:00
images:
- 5cDZPNb.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Olivier Hoslet / EPA / TASS'
authors:
- Mikhail Dobrunov
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
- Hungary
- Viktor Orban
- Russian oil
- embargo
- "Friendship"
stories:
---

The agreement by the EU countries of a partial embargo on Russian-produced oil will not affect Hungary, said the head of the government of this country, Viktor Orban, on Facebook (the owner of the Meta Platforms social network in Russia, recognized as an extremist organization and banned).

“The deal was done. Hungary freed from oil embargo! <...> Hungarian families can sleep peacefully today,” the prime minister wrote.

According to L'Echo, Orbán, during a meeting of European leaders, demanded guarantees that Hungary would be able to import oil by sea or otherwise "in the event of a pipeline failure."

The measures approved by European leaders suggest that the sanctions will not affect the supply of crude oil through the pipeline. European Council President Charles Michel noted that such a measure would be temporary, during this period, countries importing oil through the pipeline should find other fuel suppliers. According to the head of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen, such an exception will affect about 10% of oil supplied to the European Union.

Earlier, Belgian Prime Minister Alexandre de Croo said that a ban only on offshore oil supplies threatens to create an imbalance for European countries and Brussels will not be able to support a boycott that will affect only half of the EU,  The Brussels Times [reported](https://www.brusselstimes.com/230549/belgium-wants-eu-compensation-for-partial-russian-oil-embargo). After agreeing on measures, he [noted](https://www.lecho.be/dossiers/conflit-ukraine-russie/les-vingt-sept-s-accordent-pour-un-embargo-sur-le-petrole-russe/10392411.html) that Belgium was satisfied with the compromise.

Russian oil accounted for 27% of all EU imports, according to Eurostat data. During the day, European countries buy about 2.4 million barrels of raw materials from Russia, according to the data of the International Energy Agency, with 35% of this volume delivered to the EU through pipelines, CNN [reports](https://edition.cnn.com/europe/live-news/russia-ukraine-war-news-05-30-22/h_19e10d2aa8460afc63dc43d356013df3). As the TV channel points out, Hungary depends on oil supplies through the pipeline by 86%, the Czech Republic - by 97%, Slovakia - by 100%.

Orban has previously opposed an oil embargo against Russia, comparing such a decision to an "atomic bomb" for the Hungarian economy. Budapest's position in this regard could lead to the fact that "something could happen" with some oil from the Druzhba pipeline that goes to Hungary, Kiev warned . Olena Zerkal, adviser to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine, called the oil pipeline “an excellent leverage” and added that Kyiv could decide whether to speak with the Hungarian Prime Minister “in the language that he understands and that he imposes on the EU, or we are not ready for this yet” .

As Bloomberg learned at the end of May, the European Commission proposed to “spare” oil supplies through the Druzhba pipeline in order to reach a compromise with Hungary. According to the EC plan, EU members will gradually stop importing Russian-made oil within six months, and oil products - eight months. As the agency learned, this should give Budapest more time to find a solution that would satisfy its energy needs, the EC reasoned, which would also solve the problems of other landlocked countries, including Slovakia and the Czech Republic.