---
title: "The UN reported more than 4 thousand victims of the conflict in Ukraine"
description: According to the UN, as of May 30, 4,074 civilians have died in the three months since the start of the military conflict in Ukraine.
date: 2022-05-31T12:45:49+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T12:45:49+03:00
images:
- I9W45LR.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Emilio Morenatti / AP'
authors:
- Georgy Tadtaev
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
stories:
- Military operation in Ukraine
---

Since the outbreak of hostilities in Ukraine on February 24, 4,074 civilians have been killed, 4,826 citizens have been injured, [according to the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights](https://www.ohchr.org/en/news/2022/05/ukraine-civilian-casualty-update-30-may-2022). This is the updated data as of May 30th. Among the dead were 262 children.

In Donetsk and Luhansk regions, 2,307 civilians were killed and 2,730 wounded. According to the UN, 136 people died and 569 were injured in the regions controlled by the DPR and LPR.

On the territory of the regions previously controlled by the Ukrainian authorities, 2,171 and 2,161 people were killed and injured, respectively.

In other regions of Ukraine, 1,767 people died and 2,096 were injured.

“Most of the known civilian casualties occurred as a result of the use of explosive weapons with a large area of ​​destruction, including shelling from heavy artillery and multiple launch rocket systems, rocket and air strikes,” the report says.

The Office of the UN High Commissioner believes that the real losses among the civilian population are higher, since it is difficult to count in those areas where fighting continues. Some data not included in the report is still awaiting confirmation.

The figures provided by the UN do not include military casualties. President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky said on April 16 that the country's military losses during the special operation ranged from 2.5 thousand to 3 thousand people, another 10 thousand were injured. The Russian Ministry of Defense [estimated the](https://tass.ru/armiya-i-opk/14394827) irretrievable losses of the Ukrainian side on the same date at 23,367 people.

The Russian Ministry of Defense last reported on casualties among the military on March 25. According to data published at the time , 1,351 Russian servicemen were killed and 3,825 wounded during the hostilities in Ukraine.

