---
title: "Razvozhaev explained the closure of Sevastopol beaches by a special operation"
description: 
date: 2022-05-31T20:11:11+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T20:11:11+03:00
images:
- tYacEy6.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Sergey Savostyanov / TASS'
authors:
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
- Ukraine
- Sevastopol
- Crimea
- beaches
stories:
- Military operation in Ukraine
---

The main base of the Black Sea Fleet is located in Sevastopol, for this reason, during a special military operation, access to the city's beaches is limited. This was [stated](https://t.me/razvozhaev/520) by the governor of the city Mikhail Razvozhaev in his Telegram channel.

“A special military operation is underway, and we must not forget that Sevastopol is the main base of the Black Sea Fleet. Responsible law enforcement agencies are taking measures, which I, for obvious reasons, cannot speak about in detail and in detail, ”he wrote.

In particular, the governor cited the Ushakova Balka beach as an example, which was completely closed for the duration of the special operation. Access to the territory of the Khrustalny beach is limited from 22:00 to 5:00 in the morning.

Access to the beaches "City" and "Marble" is open, despite the fact that they have a significant excess of bacteriological indicators. The beach "Vasili" is closed due to the landslide situation.

“I ask you to treat these restrictions with understanding. I know that the real Sevastopol people understand what I am now explaining without any words. However, as soon as it becomes possible, the beaches will open,” he added, promising that a list of beaches where you can swim will soon appear on the website of the city government. The start of the swimming season is scheduled for June 15th.

A special military operation in Ukraine began on February 24 and continues to this day. According to Russian President Vladimir Putin, its goal is to help the DNR and LNR. In the Russian regions bordering Ukraine, including Crimea, a regime of increased terrorist threat has been introduced. 