---
title: 'Kadyrov announced the completion of the "total cleansing" of Severodonetsk'
description: The Russian military with LPR units entered Severodonetsk last week and completely blockaded Ukrainian troops, Kadyrov said. On May 28, he declared that "the city has been liberated"
date: 2022-05-31T22:50:33+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T22:50:33+03:00
images:
- mCvm9an.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Alexander Reka / TASS'
authors:
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
- Ramzan Kadyrov
- Severodonetsk
- Military operation in Ukraine
- Lugansk region
stories:
- Military operation in Ukraine
---

The fighters of the Chechen units and the People's Militia of the LPR have completed a "total cleansing" of Severodonetsk in the Lugansk region of Ukraine, the city is under the complete control of the Russian military, the head of Chechnya Ramzan Kadyrov [wrote on his Telegram channel](https://t.me/RKadyrov_95/2230).

According to him, the military is now embarking on a "more thorough random check of individual urban facilities."

Kadyrov said that the building of the Security Service of Ukraine in Severodonetsk and the territory adjacent to it were "completely cleared." He claims that the Ukrainian troops “hurriedly abandoned their offices and fled, but left many “surprises” in the form of improvised explosive devices,” which are being disposed of by sappers.

On May 25, the head of Chechnya announced that the Russian military had entered Lisichansk, and also "almost entered" Severodonetsk. The two cities are located on different banks of the Seversky Donets River, they form the Lisichansko-Severodonetsk agglomeration, which also includes Rubizhnoye, Kremennaya and other settlements.

Two days later, Kadyrov said that Chechen fighters, together with units of the LPR, completely blocked the Ukrainian military in Severodonetsk, and the next day that "the city was liberated." “The fascists have been defeated. All their positions have been destroyed,” the head of Chechnya claimed. He said that as a result of the attack on the city there were prisoners.

Fighting in the area of ​​Severodonetsk was going on in March. Then the head of the LPR, Leonid Pasechnik, claimed that the military personnel of the republic [occupied](https://lug-info.com/news/narodnaya-miliciya-lnr-osvobodila-okolo-70-80-territorii-respubliki-pasechnik) up to 80% of the territory of the Luhansk region of Ukraine.

On the evening of May 31, a tank with nitric acid exploded at the Azot plant in Severodonetsk, LPR Ambassador Rodion Miroshnik said. Serhiy Gaidai, head of the Kyiv-controlled Lugansk regional administration, warned that nitric acid vapors are irritating to the respiratory tract. In case of poisoning, symptoms similar to bronchitis appear, as well as dizziness and drowsiness. He recommended that residents prepare protective face masks soaked in a soda solution.
