---
title: "Zelensky estimated the daily losses of the Ukrainian army"
description: "Zelensky: Ukraine loses up to 100 soldiers killed and 500 wounded daily. The President called the situation in the east particularly difficult. He stressed that Ukraine does not plan to conduct hostilities on Russian territory."
date: 2022-06-01T07:43:37+03:00
lastmod: 2022-06-01T07:43:37+03:00
images:
- DIR0V0b.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Christopher Furlong/Getty Images'
authors:
- Natalia Anisimova
- Evgenia Voropaeva
- rbc
categories:
- politics
tags:
- Ukraine
- Vladimir Zelensky
stories:
- Military operation in Ukraine
---

In Ukraine, as a result of hostilities, up to 100 military personnel of the Armed Forces of Ukraine die daily, President Volodymyr Zelensky said in an interview with Newsmax.

“The situation is very difficult. We lose between 60 and 100 soldiers killed and about 500 wounded in combat every day,” he said. According to the head of state, the most difficult situation is developing "in the east of Ukraine and in the south of Donetsk and Luhansk."

He called his country a "defensive perimeter", a "physical barrier" in the way of the Russian army. The President stressed that Kyiv has no plans to attack Russia: “We are not interested in what is happening in Russia. We are only interested in our own territory.”

At a press conference in May, Zelensky [said](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-05-22/ukraine-latest-polish-president-to-address-parliament-in-kyiv?srnd=premium-europe) that up to 100 soldiers die every day in battles in the east of the country.

In mid-April, the President of Ukraine estimated the total losses for the entire period of the Russian special operation at 2.5-3 thousand killed and 10 thousand wounded. At the same time, the Russian Ministry of Defense by that time reported 14 thousand irretrievable and 16 thousand sanitary losses in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. On April 16, the department announced already about 23 thousand dead soldiers of the "Ukrainian army, the National Guard and foreign mercenaries." The ministry last reported on the losses of the Russian army on March 25 (1351 dead, 3825 wounded).

On May 21, Zelensky said that 700 thousand people are participating in the hostilities on the side of Kiev. On May 27, the President of Ukraine called the situation in Donbass “very difficult”, where the Russian side concentrated “maximum artillery, maximum reserves”.