---
title: "WSJ learned about the discussion of the suspension of Russia's participation in the OPEC deal"
description: EU-imposed sanctions and embargoes are “starting to undermine Moscow’s ability to produce more oil,” the newspaper writes.
date: 2022-05-31T21:41:15+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T21:41:15+03:00
images:
- lFvshSp.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Egor Aleev / TASS'
authors:
- Victoria Tyutina
- RBC
categories:
- economics
tags:
stories:
- sanctions war
---

Some members of OPEC are exploring the possibility of suspending Russia's participation in an oil production deal, writes The Wall Street Journal, citing the organization's delegates.

They explained this by saying that European sanctions and embargoes allegedly "begin to undermine Moscow's ability to produce more oil." The newspaper writes that this year it is expected that production in Russia "will be reduced by about 8%".

A spokesman for Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak (who oversees the OPEC+ deal) declined to comment.

In early May, the OPEC+ member countries agreed on the level of increase in oil production in the amount of 432 thousand barrels. per day until June.

OPEC Secretary General Mohammed Barkindo noted that the loss of Russian exports will be tangible for the energy market and that other countries will not be able to make up for Russian supplies.

“Export of Russian oil and oil products in the amount of more than 7 million barrels. per day cannot be replaced from somewhere else. There are no free capacities,” he stressed.

Saudi Energy Minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman Al Saud said that the country expects to work out an OPEC + agreement with Russia, despite attempts to put pressure on it through sanctions.

During the May 30 summit in Brussels, the EU reached an agreement on a partial ban on Russian oil imports as part of the sixth round of sanctions. The ban has been imposed on offshore oil supplies, but excludes exports through pipelines, through which Hungary, Germany and Poland receive about a third of the oil.

Russia has repeatedly pointed out that the oil embargo will negatively affect everyone. Under such a scenario, Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak predicted Brent prices up to $300 per barrel.