---
title: "Gazprom to suspend gas supplies to Shell and Danish Orsted from June 1 2022"
description: The gas payment deadline for Danish Orsted and British-Dutch Shell expired on May 31st. The companies themselves previously refused to pay Gazprom for gas under the new scheme - in rubles
date: 2022-05-31T18:08:09+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T18:08:09+03:00
images:
- JZIcpUD.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Vitaly Nevar / TASS'
authors:
- Ilya Furseev
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
stories:
- sanctions war
---

From June 1, Gazprom Export will suspend gas supplies to the British-Dutch Shell Energy Company under a contract for Germany and Danish Orsted due to non-payment under the new scheme for April, the Russian company said in a [statement](https://t.me/gazprom/751).

According to the Russian company, Shell and Orsted have been notified that they “do not intend to make payments under the gas supply contract in rubles”, and therefore gas supplies will be suspended until payment is made.

Gazprom indicated that the maximum annual volume of deliveries to Germany under a contract with Shell is 1.2 billion cubic meters. m, the volume of deliveries of the Danish company in the press service was not disclosed.

The new gas payment scheme, which has been in effect since April 1, requires that foreign buyers from the list of unfriendly countries (the Russian government has included all EU countries, the USA, Britain and a number of other countries) must open two accounts with Gazprombank - one in foreign currency and one in rubles. After the payment is received on the first account in dollars or euros, the bank independently converts the funds on the Moscow Exchange, after which it credits rubles to the second account.

Previously, gas supplies to the Netherlands , Bulgaria, Poland and Finland were stopped , these countries also refused to comply with Russia's conditions. On May 27, European Commissioner for Energy Kadri Simson announced that the EU is developing a "backup plan" in the event of a complete cessation of imports from Russia.

Danish Orsted [announced](https://orsted.com/en/media/newsroom/news/2022/04/13648039) its refusal to pay for gas in rubles in early April, after receiving a corresponding letter from the Russian company. According to [Bloomberg](http://www.bloomberg.com/), the Danish contract expires at the end of the decade. The agency notes that Russia supplied Denmark with 80% of the gas purchased by the country, but this accounted for 1.3% of all gas purchased by Europe last year. The day before, on May 30, Orsted warned of a possible cessation of Russian gas supplies due to the fact that the deadline for payment expires. British-Dutch Shell also announced in early March that it would phase out purchases of Russian oil, as well as oil products, pipeline gas and LNG. However, according to Bloomberg, the company had a number of long-term contracts. Thus, the agreement with the export division of Gazprom implies the receipt of 1.2 billion cubic meters of gas annually with its delivery to Germany until 2031. The agency also reported that Shell may experience difficulties in paying for gas, as Britain imposed sanctions against Gazprombank.