---
title: "Germany's main gas importer paid Gazprom under a new scheme"
description: The German concern Uniper announced the first payment for gas under the new scheme proposed by Moscow. Earlier, the company said that they consider it possible to find a compromise option for paying for Russian gas supplies.
date: 2022-05-31T18:41:11+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T18:41:11+03:00
images:
- FBKXpys.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Sven Simon / TASS'
authors:
- Ilya Furseev
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
- Germany
- Gazprom
- gas supplies
- sanctions
stories:
- sanctions war
---

The German concern Uniper, the main importer of Russian gas in Germany, made the first payment to Gazprom under the new scheme. About it with reference to the message of the company reports [Reuters](http://www.reuters.com/).

“Like other German and European companies, Uniper has changed the way it pays for gas supplies from Russia. Uniper pays in euros according to the new payment mechanism. The first of these payments was made at the end of May,” Uniper said in a statement.

The company also assured that they continue to act in accordance with EU sanctions and continue to ensure the timely execution of contracts.

At the end of March, Russia announced a new gas payment scheme. Buyers were obliged to open two accounts in Gazprombank: currency and ruble. Payment will come to the first, and then the bank will convert the funds received and credit them to the ruble account. As explained in the Kremlin, the new scheme is needed to protect incoming funds from freezing due to Western sanctions. The European Commission considered this scheme an attempt to circumvent restrictions and accused Moscow of blackmailing with gas, but did not issue a direct ban.

The German concern Uniper is the main importer of Russian gas in Germany. At the end of April, the company reported that they consider it possible to find a compromise option for paying for Russian gas supplies, which will be compatible with both European sanctions and Moscow's requirements. "Uniper is negotiating with its contract partners about specific payment modalities and, in addition, is in close consultation with the German government," the company's press service said.

Earlier, gas supplies to the Netherlands, Bulgaria, Poland and Finland were stopped for refusing to pay Gazprom under the new scheme. In addition, from June 1, Gazprom will [suspend](/news/62962d109a7947530eb4bbbc/) gas supplies to Germany under a contract with Shell (1.2 billion cubic meters per year), as well as the Danish Orsted. 