---
title: "Ambassador of the LPR reported on the explosion of a container with nitric acid in Severodonetsk"
description: The administration appointed by the Ukrainian authorities also reported the explosion and warned that nitric acid fumes were dangerous to humans. The Ministry of Defense previously said that the Armed Forces of Ukraine placed heavy weapons at the plant
date: 2022-05-31T20:37:24+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T20:37:24+03:00
images:
- 2uk6ssN.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Gleb Granich/Reuters'
authors:
- Julia Vyrodova
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
stories:
- Military operation in Ukraine
---

In Severodonetsk, at the Azot plant, a container with nitric acid exploded, it is controlled by the Ukrainian military, [said](https://t.me/miroshnik_r/7448) LPR Ambassador to Russia Rodion Miroshnik.

“A container with chemicals was blown up at the Azot chemical plant. First, it's nitric acid. The territory of the plant is still controlled by formations of the Ukrainian regime,” Miroshnik said.

Serhiy Gaidai, head of the Kyiv-controlled Lugansk regional administration, warned that nitric acid vapors are irritating to the respiratory tract. In case of poisoning, symptoms similar to bronchitis appear, as well as dizziness and drowsiness. He recommended that residents prepare protective face masks soaked in a soda solution.

Severodonetsk Azot Association [is the largest chemical enterprise](http://www.ostchem.com/uk/o-kompanii/proizvodstvo/sever) in Ukraine, it is part of Dmitry Firtash's OSTCHEM group. The plant produces liquid ammonia, ammonium nitrate, acetic acid, methanol.

On May 28, the head of Chechnya, Ramzan Kadyrov , announced that Severodonetsk had been taken under full control. According to him, the city has been liberated and the residents are no longer in danger. Kadyrov added that the city was taken in three hours. On May 30, the official representative of the People's Militia of the LPR, Ivan Filiponenko , said that the military republics, together with Russian troops, occupied a foothold in the city and "continue to develop success."

The day before, on May 30, the commander of the Akhmat special unit, Apty Alaudinov, on the air of Rossiya 1, said that “the day before yesterday, the residential sector of Severodonetsk was under complete control,” and last night, “cleansing the residential sector by 100%” was completed.

Severodonetsk was one of the last two large cities that remained outside the control of the LPR authorities (the second city was Lisichansk). Fighting in the area had been going on since March. In early May, the Russian Defense Ministry [said](https://t.me/mod_russia/15268) that the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the Ukrainian national battalions placed heavy weapons on the territory of Azot in Severodonetsk, and also “hold more than a thousand workers of the plant and local residents” in its underground structures.