---
title: "The White House announced the transfer of multiple rocket launchers to Ukraine"
description: Ukraine will receive M142 HIMARS multiple launch rocket systems from the United States, as well as helicopters, vehicles and anti-tank weapons, including Javelin systems, the White House said. The volume of military aid is estimated at $700 million
date: 2022-06-01T03:34:44+03:00
lastmod: 2022-06-01T03:34:44+03:00
images:
- sZKzgFa.jpg
caption: "Photo: Mosa'ab Elshamy / AP"
authors:
- Natalia Anisimova
- Roman Koterev
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
- rocket launcher system
- arms shipments
- White House
stories:
- Military operation in Ukraine
---

The United States will transfer M142 HIMARS (High Mobility Artillery Rocket System) multiple launch rocket systems to Ukraine, Reuters reports, citing senior administration official Joe Biden.

“These systems will be used by Ukrainians to repel the offensive of Russian troops on Ukrainian territory,” he said. The representative of the White House emphasized that Kyiv would not use the weapons transferred to it for strikes against targets in Russia.

In addition, the new package of US military assistance to Ukraine, which is estimated at $ 700 million, will include radar stations, helicopters, vehicles and anti-tank weapons, including Javelin systems, Hill [reports](https://thehill.com/policy/defense/3507477-us-sending-advanced-rocket-systems-to-ukraine/) citing a White House spokesman.

As the newspaper notes, conflicting reports have previously been received from the US authorities regarding the supply of heavy weapons to Ukraine. On May 30, President Biden [said](/news/6294c73b9a7947c9e8c429aa/) the United States would not transfer missile systems capable of reaching Russian territory to Ukraine. However, the next day , he [published](/news/6296ad269a794779b509a6c0/) an article in The New York Times, where the president announced the delivery of more modern missile systems and ammunition to Kiev, which will allow "more accurately strikes at key targets on the battlefields in Ukraine."

The Washington Post, citing a source, previously [wrote](https://www.wsj.com/articles/guided-u-s-rockets-could-double-ukraines-strike-range-11653989401) that the United States is considering the possibility of transferring multiple launch rocket systems with missiles to Ukraine, the range of which is more than 64 km. According to the publication, Ukraine will be able to receive M31 Guided Multiple Launch Rocket System installations, their range, depending on the ammunition, can reach 500 km. At the same time, the installations that are going to be sent to Ukraine will be equipped with missiles with a range of 64 km, the interlocutor of the newspaper pointed out.

American Ambassador to the UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield noted that the United States will continue to support Ukraine's efforts to protect sovereignty and territorial integrity, but they are not going to supply weapons that will allow Ukraine to attack Russian territory.

Kyiv has repeatedly asked the United States and its allies for the M142 HIMARS and M270 MLRS multiple launch rocket systems. In mid-May, sources told Politico that momentum with the transfer of missile systems to Kiev had "cooled" as US authorities feared the conflict would drag on. They believe that Ukraine can use the received MLRS for strikes on Russian territory.

Russian Ambassador to the United States Anatoly Antonov then saw in the possible supply of missile systems the risk of an escalation of the conflict. According to the diplomat, there is a possibility that these weapons will be placed near the Russian borders and the Ukrainians will be able to strike at the territory of Russia. Antonov called this situation unacceptable.

{{<info>}}
The American self-propelled MLRS M270, adopted by several NATO countries, is capable of firing up to 12 tactical missiles in less than 60 seconds, and its accuracy is maintained in all modes, since the retargeting after each shot is monitored by a computer. Depending on the ammunition used, the M270 can hit targets up to 300 km away. The crew of such an installation is three people, on the march it develops a speed of up to 64 km/h.
{{</info>}}