---
title: "Zelensky established a new holiday on the day of the baptism of Russia"
description: The day of Ukrainian statehood will be celebrated on July 28 - the day of the baptism of Kievan Rus. The President also promised that this day would be non-working.
date: 2022-05-31T17:51:24+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T17:51:24+03:00
images:
- NdOq3J4.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Florian Gaertner / TASS'
authors:
- Ilya Furseev
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
- Ukraine
- holiday
- Vladimir Zelensky
stories:
---

President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky during a solemn meeting of the Verkhovna Rada on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the independence of the republic signed a decree on the celebration of the Day of Ukrainian Statehood, Interfax-Ukraine reports.

“We are the heirs of the statehood that existed more than a thousand years ago, and we are starting to celebrate the Day of Ukrainian Statehood. We consider the year of foundation of Kyiv, the capital of Kievan Rus-Ukraine, which is not in vain called the city where everything begins, as its starting point," he said.

The president proposed to celebrate the birth of Ukrainian statehood on the day of the baptism of Kievan Rus, which is celebrated in Ukraine on July 28. The head of state promised that this day would be non-working.

The Ukrainian leader also noted that the country's authorities would do everything possible to return the remains of prominent Ukrainians who were buried abroad. "Ukraine will return its own - historical and cultural values ​​that are abroad," Zelensky added.

In addition to the Day of Ukrainian Statehood, Ukraine celebrates Independence Day on August 24. Last year, Independence Day became a jubilee - 30 years have passed since Ukraine gained independence after the collapse of the USSR.

On August 24, 2021, a solemn parade took place in Kiev. Among the participants were the military of the NATO countries - the United States, Great Britain and the Czech Republic, as well as the military of Sweden, Finland and Georgia.

Speaking on the occasion of the holiday, the President noted that after the collapse of the USSR, Ukraine managed to restore its independence in 30 years, since the Ukrainian people are the heir to the statehood that existed for almost 1,000 years. At the same time, Zelensky first [announced](https://tass.ru/mezhdunarodnaya-panorama/12203607) plans to establish a new holiday in Ukraine - the Day of Ukrainian Statehood.

