---
title: "Roskomnadzor demanded to remove Tor Browser from the Google Play store"
description: According to the agency, Tor Browser allows Russians "to gain access to prohibited content and facilitates the commission of criminal offenses."
date: 2022-05-31T19:14:04+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T19:14:04+03:00
images:
- kov18Sc.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Joe Raedle/Getty Images'
authors:
- Ilya Furseev
- Daria Chebakova
- RBC
categories:
- technology and media
tags:
- Roskomnadzor
- Google Play
stories:
---

Roskomnadzor demanded that the American company Google remove the Tor Browser application from the Google Play store in accordance with the court decision, [according](https://t.me/rkn_tg/261) to the department's Telegram channel.

“In accordance with the decision of the Saratov District Court, Roskomnadzor demanded that Google LLC remove the Tor Browser software application from the Google Play store,” the report said.

According to the department, the court recognized the information contained in the Tor Browser as prohibited for distribution in Russia, as well as the application itself - "allowing access to prohibited content and facilitating the commission of criminal offenses."

RBC sent a request to Google.

Roskomnadzor entered the Tor browser site into the register of prohibited information due to “posting information on the specified site that ensures the operation of tools that provide access to illegal content” in early December last year. Before that, the developers specified that Russia is the second country in the world in terms of the number of Tor users, the browser was used by more than 300 thousand Russians daily - this is 15% of all its users.

{{<info>}}
The way Tor works is that the user's request to enter the site is first transmitted in encrypted form to the entry node with its own IP address. For each request, a route is randomly chosen through one of the three nodes, and each subsequent node encrypts the previous one. All traces of Tor users on the Internet are thus hidden. The browser developer is the American non-profit organization Tor Project.
{{</info>}}

In total, since the beginning of 2022, Roskomnadzor has blocked more than 135,000 materials containing prohibited information, with almost half of them based on user complaints. More than 46,000 publications of this number belonged to the categories "drugs", "suicide propaganda" and "child pornography".