---
title: "Mexico bans the sale of vapes and electronic cigarettes"
description: 
date: 2022-06-01T06:49:04+03:00
lastmod: 2022-06-01T06:49:04+03:00
images:
- bykAO6z.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Manuel Velasquez/Getty Images'
authors:
- rbc
categories:
- society
tags:
- vape
- Mexico
- e-Sigs
stories:
---

Mexico has banned the sale of vapes and electronic cigarettes. The corresponding decree was [signed](https://t.me/PresidenteAMLO/2998) by President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador.

“Today, we signed a decree that prohibits the distribution and commercialization of vapes and electronic cigarettes in Mexico,” the president said in a statement.

The head of state explained that the decision was taken to protect the health of the nation and especially children and adolescents who are exposed to toxic substances.

Last year, in Ukraine, the authorities equated electronic cigarettes with conventional ones. From July 11, the country will have a ban on smoking devices for heating tobacco in elevators, restaurants, playgrounds, train stations and stations, RBC Ukraine writes.

The World Health Organization last year invited governments to adopt policies similar to conventional cigarettes to protect the public from the harms of e-cigarettes and prevent their spread to children, adolescents and other vulnerable populations. At that time, the organization estimated that 32 countries had already banned the sale of electronic cigarettes, and another 79 countries had taken at least partial measures to ban the use of these products in public places, their advertising, promotion and sponsorship. They also added that in 84 countries these systems are not regulated or restricted in any way.