---
title: "WSJ learned about EU plans to ban insurance of tankers with oil from Russia"
description: According to the WSJ, this will prevent Russia from selling its oil in Asia, since European companies insure almost all of the world's supplies of this fuel. On May 30, the EU, after a month and a half of discussions, agreed on a ban on oil supplies by sea
date: 2022-05-31T21:33:41+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T21:33:41+03:00
images:
- pQvok2J.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Vitaly Timkiv / RIA Novosti'
authors:
- Julia Vyrodova
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
- oil
- sanctions
- EU
- Russian oil
- tankers
stories:
- sanctions war
---

As part of an embargo on Russian oil, the EU will also ban insurance on tankers carrying it, diplomats and officials on condition of anonymity told [The Wall Street Journal](https://www.wsj.com/articles/eus-ban-on-russian-oil-adds-stress-to-regions-economies-11653993757).

The publication explains that this ban will affect tankers carrying Russian oil around the world and cut it off from the Asian market, since European companies insure most of the oil trade in the world.

On May 30, after a month and a half of discussions, the EU [agreed on](/news/62953e1c9a7947f3ad98cb8c/) a partial ban on Russian oil imports. The sanctions will not include pipeline supplies, but according to European Council President Charles Michel, the restrictions will affect more than two-thirds of oil supplies from Russia.

Hungary, Germany and Poland received about a third of the raw materials through pipelines, but the latter two themselves decided to refuse any form of its supply from Russia. As [explained](/news/6295c7ae9a7947189b17a92d/) by the head of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen, by the end of the year, oil will enter the EU only through the southern part of the Druzhba pipeline, which accounts for 10% of the total volume of oil bought by the EU from Russia.

The European Union began discussing an embargo on Russian oil in mid-April as part of the sixth round of sanctions. Hungary, which receives 60% of its oil from Russia, opposed it .

Last year, the EU countries imported approximately €32.7 billion worth of crude oil by sea, or 68% of all oil imports from Russia. For another €21.2 billion, Europe imported Russian oil products by sea. According to Bloomberg estimates , Russia's losses due to the EU-agreed partial embargo on Russian oil will amount to about $22 billion a year: about $10 billion due to a ban on offshore oil exports, another $12 billion from the cessation of supplies along the northern branch of Druzhba

The Kremlin has previously [said](/news/624179849a7947dbebd740e6/) that if European countries refuse Russian raw materials, then Russia will compensate for the falling bids with an easterly direction. Presidential press secretary Dmitry Peskov noted that the world market is not only European, but the latter is premium. He also said that such a decision would "hit everyone."  