---
title: "Vučić said that Serbia has no anti-Western or Russophobic course"
description: Vucic, who entered his second term, noted that Serbia behaves in accordance with the principles of international law and can unequivocally condemn its violations. He also called neutrality the path to the future for the country.
date: 2022-05-31T16:41:35+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T16:41:35+03:00
images:
- 5JKzFNm.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Darko Vojinovic / AP'
authors:
- Julia Vyrodova
categories:
- politics
tags:
- Serbia
- Alexander Vucic
- West
- Russophobia
stories:
---

Serbia does not allow any anti-Western or Russophobic behavior and is proud of it, President Aleksandar Vucic, who entered his second term, said after taking the oath in the country's parliament, RTV [reports](https://www.rtv.rs/sr_ci/politika/vucic-polaze-zakletvu-za-drugi-predsednicki-mandat_1344673.html).

Vucic noted that he is also proud of Serbia, which today behaves in accordance with the principles of public international law and can unequivocally and clearly condemn its violations.

“Dostoevsky, and Shakespeare, and Goethe, and Hemingway are welcome here, and Serbia can be proud of this, even if it is a rare country in today's world,” Vučić said.

He added that Serbia remains an island surrounded by NATO. “All around us are countries where NATO is located. There is not a single country that is not in NATO, Serbia is like a small island. Some call it a problem. What is the problem that you believe in your people, the heroic genes of your citizens, and that we are able to defend our land and want to have the right to defend our borders, our country, have our military and protect our sky,” he said.

Presidential and parliamentary elections were held in Serbia on April 3, Vucic was re-elected for a second term with a score of 60%, his Serbian Progressive Party received 43% of the vote. His rival from the United Serbia opposition coalition, Zdravko Ponos, won 17% of the vote, the coalition 13%.

Vučić has repeatedly spoken about the neutrality of Serbia, but noted that its path is directed to the EU. At the same time, Belgrade does not intend to "trample its friendship that it has in the East," he noted. Serbia also refused to impose sanctions against Russia, but, according to the president, it costs her dearly. Belgrade will resist imposing restrictions on Russia "for as long as it can." Russian President Vladimir Putin, in a congratulatory telegram to Vučić , indicated that his foreign policy is independent, and partnerships between countries "meet the interests of the fraternal peoples of Russia and Serbia."

At the same time, Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabic in May compared the actions of Russia in Ukraine and the actions of Western countries in relation to Serbia in 1999 and 2008. “When the great powers choose which UN resolution to fully comply with and which to violate, then an international legal order based on the rule of force emerges. Russia today is doing what some other countries did to us in 1999 and 2008,” Brnabic said at the time. Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova called the comparison inappropriate.