---
title: "Zelensky ruled out an attack on Russian territory"
description: “We are not interested in what is happening in Russia. We are only interested in our own territory,” Zelensky stressed, excluding the attack of targets in Russia. The White House previously announced its intention to supply Kyiv with MLRS
date: 2022-06-01T04:23:36+03:00
lastmod: 2022-06-01T04:23:36+03:00
images:
- 5dnOVIc.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Office of the President of Ukraine / AP'
authors:
- Natalia Anisimova
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
- Vladimir Zelensky
- Military operation in Ukraine
- arms shipments
stories:
- Military operation in Ukraine
---

Ukraine is calling for long-range weapons for defensive purposes, not to attack targets in Russia, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky [told](https://www.newsmax.com/newsmax-tv/ukraine-volodymyr-zelenskyy-russia-donetsk/2022/05/31/id/1072361/) Newsmax.

“We are not interested in what is happening in Russia. We are only interested in our own territory,” he stressed.

According to Zelensky, Ukraine now plays the role of a “defensive perimeter” for the whole world, and Kyiv excludes the cession of its territories: “We are not ready to cede any of our territories: this is our independence, our sovereignty, that is the question.”

The President of Ukraine said that "with some territories there are some difficulties" that can be discussed, this is necessary in order to stop the hostilities.

According to Zelensky, now the most difficult situation is in eastern Ukraine, in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions: “We are losing 60-100 soldiers a day killed and about 500 people wounded in battle.” The head of state already spoke about the very difficult situation in the Donbass a few days ago, stressing that the Armed Forces of Ukraine are holding back the offensive.

The Ukrainian authorities have repeatedly said that the country needs the M142 HIMARS and M270 MLRS multiple launch rocket systems (MLRS) for defense and response to Russian strikes, but Washington has denied such supplies to Kiev, including because of fears that the Ukrainian military might use weapons to shell Russian territory. Since the beginning of the Russian military operation, Western countries and NATO have supplied Kyiv with several shipments of weapons, but at the same time have long refrained from transferring heavy equipment due to fears about Moscow's reaction.

The day before, US President Joe Biden [said](/news/6294c73b9a7947c9e8c429aa/) that Washington would not transfer to Kiev missile systems capable of reaching Russian territory. The following day, in an op-ed for The New York Times, he [announced the delivery](/news/6296ad269a794779b509a6c0/) of more advanced missile systems and munitions to Kiev that would enable it to “hit key targets on the Ukrainian battlefield more accurately.”

The White House [announced](/news/6296b4189a7947799595b383/) that they would provide Ukraine with a new $700 million military aid package, which would include the M142 HIMARS MLRS. The Biden administration stressed that the Ukrainian military would not use them to strike targets in Russia.

The Russian Foreign Ministry [warned](/news/628fc55f9a7947e3ecee1685/) that the supply of weapons to Ukraine capable of reaching Russian territory would be "a major step towards an unacceptable escalation." Russian Ambassador to Washington Anatoly Antonov, in turn , demanded that the United States stop "pumping" Ukraine with weapons.

