---
title: "Biden named the US goal in the conflict in Ukraine"
description: The United States will transfer missile systems to Ukraine, but are not going to participate in hostilities, Biden stressed. Washington does not want a war between Russia and NATO and will not put pressure on Kyiv to make concessions to Moscow, he pointed out.
date: 2022-06-01T03:09:20+03:00
lastmod: 2022-06-01T03:09:20+03:00
images:
- mBAAXAZ.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Evan Vucci / AP'
authors:
- Natalia Anisimova
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
- Joe Biden
- USA
- Ukraine
stories:
- Military operation in Ukraine
---

The United States is not going to directly engage in the conflict in Ukraine until it or its allies are attacked, US President Joe Biden wrote in an [op-ed for The New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/31/opinion/biden-ukraine-strategy.html).

Biden pointed out that the fighting in Ukraine has been going on for the fourth month, and in these conditions, he considers it necessary to clearly define the goals of the United States. "America's goal is simple: we want a democratic, independent, sovereign, and prosperous Ukraine that has the means to deter and defend against further aggression," he stressed.

The US President also listed what the US would and would not do. According to him, Washington intends to:

- to supply Kyiv with more modern missile systems and ammunition that will allow “more accurate strikes against key targets on the battlefields in Ukraine”;
- continue to supply modern weapons, including Javelin anti-tank missiles, Stinger anti-aircraft missiles, artillery and high-precision missile systems, radars, unmanned aerial vehicles, Mi-17 helicopters;
- continue to provide financial assistance to Kyiv;
- cooperate with allies and partners on the issue of sanctions against Russia;
- work to overcome the global food crisis;
- help European allies and other countries reduce their dependence on Russian fossil fuels;
- strengthen NATO's eastern flank.

At the same time, Biden stressed, the United States does not want to allow a war between Russia and NATO. Washington will not:

- trying to achieve regime change in Russia;
- send US troops to fight in Ukraine or attack Russian troops;
- encourage Ukraine to strike outside its borders;
- to put pressure on Ukraine so that it makes "any territorial concessions" to Russia.

According to Biden, the talks between Russia and Ukraine have stalled, not because of Kiev, which, as Moscow insists , "sabotaged" the negotiation process, but because the Russian side decided to "take control of as much of Ukraine as possible." He said that Washington supports Kyiv in efforts "to achieve a negotiated end to the conflict."

In his article, the US President also indicated that many in the world are concerned about the possible use of nuclear weapons. According to him, Washington sees no signs that Russia intends to use it (Moscow has repeatedly stressed that, in accordance with military doctrine, such weapons can be used if the existence of the state is threatened).

Since the beginning of the military operation in Ukraine, the United States, like other Western countries, has supplied Kyiv with several shipments of weapons, but at the same time refrained from transferring heavy equipment for a long time due to fears about Moscow's reaction. The day before, Biden [said](/news/6294c73b9a7947c9e8c429aa/) that the United States would not supply Ukraine with missile systems capable of reaching Russian territory. The next day, the White House [announced](/news/6296b4189a7947799595b383/) the decision to transfer HIMARS multiple launch rocket systems to Kiev. They stressed that the Ukrainian military will not use them to strike targets in Russia. The MLRS [will be transferred](https://thehill.com/policy/defense/3507477-us-sending-advanced-rocket-systems-to-ukraine/) as part of a new $700 million military aid package.

