---
title: "Moldova announced a reduction in the price of Russian gas"
description: In May, the cost of 1 thousand cubic meters. m of Russian gas for Moldova amounted to $920, in June it will drop to $880, Moldovagaz announced. The company demanded an increase in tariffs for the population by almost 60% due to the inability to cover costs
date: 2022-06-01T09:55:33+03:00
lastmod: 2022-06-01T09:55:33+03:00
images:
- Spvy6na.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Aurel Obreja / AP'
authors:
- Mikhail Dobrunov
- RBC
categories:
- business
tags:
- Moldova
- Russian gas
- gas supplies
- Gazprom
- "Moldovagaz"
stories:
---

The purchase price of Russian natural gas for Moldova in June will be about $880 per 1,000 cubic meters. m, taking into account the calorific value, Vadim Cheban, chairman of the board of Moldovagaz , [wrote on Telegram](https://t.me/vadimceban/123).

“Natural gas deliveries to the Republic of Moldova are going on as usual, according to the terms of the contract,” he added.

The May contract set the price at $920 per 1,000 cubic meters, said Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Spinu. At the same time, he noted that in April this figure had almost reached $1,200. “It's good that by the end of May, prices began to decline, our gas prices are about $900,” he stressed. Spinu said that an “unprecedented situation” had developed, when summer prices began to exceed winter ones, although earlier in Chisinau they were confident that they would be able to pay for gas supplies from Russia.

Ceban pointed out that the current gas tariffs for Moldovans do not allow covering the costs of gas purchases from Russia, which forces the authorities to raise tariffs.

For this reason, Moldovagaz applied to the National Energy Regulatory Agency (ANRE) with a request to review tariffs for residents of the country, increasing them by almost 60% from June 1 - the cost of 1 cubic meter of gas was to increase from 14.6 lei (47.1 rubles at the exchange rate of the Central Bank on June 1) to 22.23 lei (71.8 rubles), Jurnal TV [reported](https://www.jurnaltv.md/news/f676626475bb48af/moldovagaz-cere-majorarea-tarifului-pentru-consumatori-de-la-14-06-lei-la-22-23-lei-pentru-un-metru-cub-de-gaze.html). Cheban assured that prices would drop with the start of the heating season.

At the same time, ANRE raised the tariff, but not to the level requested by Moldovagaz - 18.6 lei (60 rubles), it will be valid from June 1 to October 1, Jurnal TV [reports](https://www.jurnaltv.md/news/716992a22455ab4f/anre-a-aprobat-noul-tarif-la-gaz.html). The company was dissatisfied with the decision of the regulator, warning that this would inevitably lead to a new tariff increase. Moldovagaz notes that the tariffs had to be revised due to a "significant increase in purchase prices." The tariff approved by ANRE stipulates that gas is purchased at $696 per 1,000 cubic meters. m, while in June it will be purchased at $880, Cheban explained, [reports](https://newsmaker.md/rus/novosti/tsena-postavki-gaza-v-moldovu-v-iyune-sostavit-880-za-tysyachu-kubometrov/) NewsMaker.

Gazprom and Moldovagaz signed a gas supply agreement in October 2021 for a five-year period. The Russian side argued that its terms were mutually beneficial. Spinu explained that the document does not set the exact price for 1 cubic meter. m of gas, but a calculation formula based on exchange prices, which leads to a variation in the cost of fuel every month. At the same time, Gazprom asked not to publish the formula for calculating the price, explaining this as a commercial secret, the Deputy Prime Minister of Moldova said.

At the same time, under the terms of the agreement, Moldova undertook to conduct an audit and pay off debts. "Gazprom" estimated the debt of Chisinau at $709 million, in January, gas supplies were under threat due to non-payment of the debt.

Chisinau sees no alternative to Russian gas, as other options involve higher fuel costs , Moldovan President Maia Sandu said in late April. “Electricity also depends on gas, there is no alternative here either, because in practice we are not connected to Romania,” she added.

