---
title: "Smolny did not understand the claims of the UK due to the demolition of pre-revolutionary buildings"
description: The Investigative Committee opened a case against officials of the St. Petersburg Committee for the Protection of Historical Monuments, suspecting them of exceeding their authority in issuing conclusions on the demolition of pre-revolutionary buildings. Smolny said they did not understand the claims.
date: 2022-06-01T07:25:27+03:00
lastmod: 2022-06-01T07:25:27+03:00
images:
- HCVUOC9.jpg
caption: 'Photo: save_sp_burg / VK'
authors:
- Natalia Anisimova
- rbc
categories:
- society
tags:
- St. Petersburg
- Smolny
- criminal case
- abuse of authority
- historical Buildings
stories:
---

The St. Petersburg Committee for State Control and Protection of Monuments (KGIOP) [told](https://www.fontanka.ru/2022/05/31/71375303/) Fontanka that they did not understand the essence of the claims of the Investigative Committee, which opened a criminal case against the committee’s employees due to preparations for the demolition of historical buildings.

“KGIOP cannot understand the meaning of the claims, since it is not a body authorized to determine or change the dates of construction of buildings,” the committee said.

They indicated that KGIOP is not responsible for the inclusion of historical buildings within the boundaries of cultural heritage sites: this is determined by the [law](https://docs.cntd.ru/document/891801807) “On the boundaries of the integrated zones for the protection of cultural heritage sites located on the territory of St. Petersburg, land use regimes and requirements for urban planning regulations within the boundaries of these zones ".

The day before , the Investigative Committee opened a criminal case against officials of the KGIOP on abuse of office (part 1 of article 286 of the Criminal Code). According to investigators, unidentified employees of the committee issued conclusions about the location of historical buildings outside the boundaries of the territories of cultural heritage sites. In addition, they allowed the demolition of buildings, replacing the year of their construction with a period of time later than 1917, according to the UK. This made it possible to remove buildings from the law, according to which houses built before the revolution are protected in St. Petersburg.

Deputies of the Legislative Assembly of St. Petersburg and municipalities of the city have previously addressed the Investigative Committee. They reported that KGIOP allowed the reconstruction of Lapin's apartment building at 26A Rizhsky Prospekt into an apartment building. As indicated in the UK, the building was built in 1840 and has historical and architectural value. The court forbade demolishing it, but despite this, construction equipment appeared near the house, and the developer and the contractor surrounded the building around the perimeter with a construction fence.

As Fontanka [wrote](https://www.fontanka.ru/2022/05/30/71371892/), Tsesma LLC, a subsidiary of Setl, was preparing for the demolition of the house. The company sent a notification to the Gosstroynadzor, but the department did not accept it, indicating that first you need to obtain a permit for the construction of the facility. Tsesma said that they are not currently carrying out any work at this site, the company can start them only after obtaining permission.

The Investigative Committee announced that it intends to check the legality of the demolition of the house of the merchant Pyotr Masalev in the village of Pesochny. In addition, the department became interested in three more objects: the building of the Vasilyevsky wine town, the building of the commercial baths of Ekimova and the arena of the Life Guards of the Finnish Regiment. Demolition of the latter began  in April. The KGIOP insists that this building is not an object of cultural heritage, it was radically rebuilt in the 20th century and “almost nothing remains” of the historical building of the 19th century. The committee added that the court issued a permit for the demolition.