---
title: "Governors will be transferred from Telegram to messenger from VK"
description: VK has developed a platform for officials with mail, instant messenger and cloud storage, it is recommended for use by civil servants. Mintsifra intends to replace Telegram, Zoom and Google Docs
date: 2022-06-01T08:19:06+03:00
lastmod: 2022-06-01T08:19:06+03:00
images:
- CRnb2HK.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Mikhail Grebenshchikov / RBC'
authors:
- Mikhail Dobrunov
- rbc
categories:
- technology and media
tags:
- VK
- Dmitry Chernyshenko
- messenger
- Import substitution
stories:
---

The heads of the regions are recommended to install Russian messengers by the beginning of June, we are talking about the automated workplace of a civil servant (AWS GS) developed by VK, Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Chernyshenko gave the corresponding instruction to the head of the Ministry of Digital Development Maksut Shadayev, Kommersant [writes](https://www.kommersant.ru/doc/5381031). Chernyshenko 's order was [published by](https://t.me/maydecree/6966) the Telegram channel "May Decrees", its authenticity was confirmed to the newspaper in the apparatus of the Deputy Prime Minister.

The Deputy Prime Minister's office told the newspaper that the platform developed by VK works in a browser and combines mail, cloud storage, an internal portal and a calendar. It is already being used in state structures, by the end of next year the authorities plan to form a federal system on its basis and connect all civil servants to it, the Ministry of Digital Development told the newspaper. It is planned to replace not only Telegram and WhatsApp messengers, the ministry added, but also Google Docs cloud software, Skype and Zoom video communication services, and the Microsoft Exchange mail service.

Regarding the heads of regions, Chernyshenko noted “the need to use exclusively domestic instant messaging tools within the framework of official activities,” referring to items from the list of instructions from the Cabinet of Ministers dated March 2020 on the transfer of civil servants to remote work due to the spread of coronavirus.

According to Kommersant, a tender for the creation of an automated workplace for officials of the Ministry of Digital Development was [announced](https://www.kommersant.ru/doc/5050483) in October last year, and in November a contract was signed with one of the VK structures. The amount of the contract amounted to 450.5 million rubles. VK noted that the system will be created on the basis of the VK Teams corporate messenger. The Ministry of Digital Development claimed that its use for officials would be free.

The general director of VK is the son of the first deputy head of the presidential administration, Sergei Kiriyenko, Vladimir.

In early March, the Ministry of Digital Transformation suggested that government departments transfer accounts on VKontakte and Telegram, this happened after the Facebook social network was blocked by Roskomnadzor (its owner Meta Platforms was recognized as an extremist organization in Russia and banned). The ministry considered that many sites are now hosted "on non-professional sites." The Deputy Prime Minister's office reported at the same time that VK, Rostelecom and Yandex were ready to provide their public clouds to speed up the relocation of sites.

At the end of May, VK and the Ministry of Digital Development also jointly announced the launch of the RuStore app store, noting that no budget money was invested in the project. Minister Maksut Shadayev said that only this app store would be regulated by law out of all Russian platforms, and assured that the Ministry of Digital Development had no plans to force the transfer of apps from foreign marketplaces. He added at the same time: “For the time being, we believe that in our jurisdiction we must compete in economic and technological ways.”