---
title: "Canada imposed sanctions against Kabaeva and Rosselkhozbank"
description: Investtorgbank and management companies of the Russian Direct Investment Fund and the Russian Venture Company were also subject to restrictions.
date: 2022-05-31T16:39:27+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T16:39:27+03:00
images:
- 07BlEkt.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Valery Sharifulin / TASS'
authors:
- Ilya Furseev
categories:
- politics
tags:
stories:
- sactions war
---

Canada has expanded anti-Russian sanctions to include 22 individuals and four legal entities, the country's government said in a [statement](https://www.canada.ca/en/global-affairs/news/2022/05/canada-imposes-additional-sanctions-to-exert-further-pressure-on-russian-regime.html).

From the sanctions [list](https://www.international.gc.ca/world-monde/international_relations-relations_internationales/sanctions/consolidated-consolide.aspx?lang=eng) on the website of the government of the country, it follows that the restrictions, in particular, included the chairman of the board of directors of the National Media Group holding, Olympic champion Alina Kabaeva, as well as Rosselkhozbank, Investtorgbank, management companies of the Russian Direct Investment Fund and the Russian Venture Company.

“These measures are the latest example of Canada's unwavering commitment to Ukraine and its people. These measures also demonstrate that Canada is a leader in a broad international effort to hold the Russian leadership to account and protect the sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of Ukraine,” the government said in a statement.

Since the beginning of the military operation in Ukraine, Canada has already announced several packages of sanctions against Russia. In particular, in March, Ottawa imposed sanctions against Russian businessmen Roman Abramovich and Alisher Usmanov, CEC head Ella Pamfilova, as well as the Ministry of Defense, the Foreign Intelligence Service, the Sukhoi company, and others. In the same month, Canada announced restrictions on 160 members of the Federation Council, and in early April - against the head of Norilsk Nickel Vladimir Potanin, the head of NOVATEK Leonid Mikhelson, the founder of the Renova group Viktor Vekselberg and six other Russians.

On May 18, Canadian Public Safety Minister Marco Mendicino announced that all Russians under sanctions would be banned from entering the country, including President Vladimir Putin. Two days later, Ottawa expanded the sanctions list to include 14 Russians, including the head of Russian Railways, Oleg Belozerov, and the daughter-in-law of Federation Council speaker Valentina Matvienko, Yulia. At the same time, Canada banned the import of luxury goods from Russia, in particular alcoholic beverages, seafood, fish and diamonds.

In response, the Russian Foreign Ministry imposed sanctions on Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, his wife and more than 300 other Canadians. President Vladimir Putin has previously [pointed out](https://ria.ru/20220305/sanktsii-1776765224.html) that "the sanctions that are being introduced are akin to a declaration of war." However, according to him, the situation has not reached a full crisis and the "partners" of the country "have an understanding of what this is fraught with and what threatens everyone."

