---
title: "Draghi said that major EU countries are against candidate status for Ukraine"
description: At the same time, Italian Prime Minister Draghi stressed that Rome is in favor of granting Kyiv the status of a candidate for the European Union.
date: 2022-05-31T19:32:40+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T19:32:40+03:00
images:
- 1ByBqAq.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Antonio Masiello/Getty Images'
authors:
- Victoria Tyutina
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
stories:
- Military operation in Ukraine
---

Almost all major EU member states, except Italy, object to granting Ukraine the status of a candidate member of the EU. This was stated by Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi after an extraordinary EU summit, [Ansa reports](https://www.ansa.it/sito/notizie/cronaca/2022/05/31/da-bruxelles-la-conferenza-stampa-di-draghi_cdc51368-9222-4bc6-9ca2-b935537aab5d.html).

“[Granting Ukraine] the status of a candidate is currently not expected due to the opposition of these countries,” he stressed.

At the same time, he mentioned the accelerated procedure for Ukraine's admission to the European Union. According to him, its introduction "can be assumed." “I think the European Commission also agrees with this,” Draghi added.

Earlier, on May 23, Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte [considered it](https://nltimes.nl/2022/05/23/unlikely-ukraine-will-become-candidate-eu-membership-dutch-pm) unlikely that Ukraine would soon receive the status of a candidate member of the European Union, since it was “very far” from this even before the start of the Russian military operation.

In addition, Rutte added, it would be unfair to the countries of the Western Balkans, which have been claiming to become candidates for much longer.

President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky asked the Prime Minister of the Netherlands to express a clearer position on Ukraine's accession to the European Union.

He thanked him for the assistance that the country provides to Ukraine. “But as far as the EU is concerned, you were silent about everything we wanted to hear. <...> If you think that we have no place in the EU, you must clearly say so,” he said. Rutte replied that there is a place for Ukraine in the European Union, but for entry "you need to go through certain stages."

French President Emmanuel Macron said on May 9 that the process of Ukraine's accession to the European Union could take several decades, even if Kiev receives the status of a candidate country in the near future.

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, speaking in parliament on May 19, [agreed](https://www.ft.com/content/c008539e-e994-40c7-85de-2f47491dca35) with Macron, saying that "there is no shortcut to the EU."

Ukraine's aspiration to join the EU has been enshrined in the country's Constitution since 2019. On February 28, a few days after the start of the Russian military operation, Zelensky signed an application for the country's accession to the EU, asking for approval "immediately." The Ukrainian authorities have also filled out a questionnaire to help Brussels decide whether Kyiv is a candidate for membership.

