---
title: Milanovic said that "Putin will smile" in the event of a gas embargo
description: According to the Croatian President, sanctions against Russia do not work. At the same time, the Italian prime minister said that Moscow would feel the consequences of Western sanctions this summer.
date: 2022-05-31T20:03:07+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T20:03:07+03:00
images:
- kfs5Tya.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Bernd von Jutrczenka / dpa / Global Look Press'
authors:
- Ilya Furseev
- RBC
categories:
- politics
tags:
- Croatia
- Italy
- sanctions
- European Union
stories:
- sactions war
---

All the sanctions that Western countries have so far imposed against Russia have not led to a weakening of the ruble and the Russian economy, [said](https://www.index.hr/vijesti/clanak/milanovic-o-sankcijama-cijenu-ce-platiti-europski-gradjani-putin-ce-se-smjeskati/2368461.aspx) Croatian President Zoran Milanovic.

“Introduce an embargo on gas from Russia as well. Why don't you enter? Unfortunately, the sanctions do not function, maybe one day they will. Neither the ruble fell, nor Russia felt it financially, and when it does, it will complete <...> [the special operation in Ukraine]. European citizens will pay the price for this, and Vladimir Putin will only smile with satisfaction,” the politician said.

In turn, Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi [noted](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QmEKlmuWhsQ&feature=youtu.be) that sanctions against Russia on gas and oil imports will be in place for a very long time, and trade channels will change for many years, "if not forever."

He also stressed that the agreement by the EU countries of a new package of sanctions was "a complete success." Italy, he added, would not suffer unnecessary damage from the cessation of Russian oil imports, as the conditions would come into effect at the end of the year. At the same time, according to him, the Russian economy will feel them starting this summer.

Since the beginning of the Russian operation in Ukraine, the European Union has already imposed five packages of sanctions against Moscow, and on the evening of May 30 [agreed](/news/62953e1c9a7947f3ad98cb8c/) to a partial ban on the import of Russian oil as part of the sixth package of sanctions. The ban will be imposed on offshore oil supplies and will not affect exports through pipelines, through which EU members, including Hungary, Germany and Poland, received about a third of the oil.

At the same time, Germany and Poland decided to independently abandon any form of Russian oil supplies (by sea and pipelines). Therefore, by the end of the year, it will be sent to the EU only through the southern part of the Druzhba pipeline, which accounts for 10% of the total volume of oil bought by the EU from Russia, explained the head of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen.

Earlier, Belgian Prime Minister Alexandre de Cros [said](/news/6295ffa99a79473597853421/) that the EU needs to “take a break” in sanctions against Russia . “This package [of sanctions] was a big step forward, and I think we should pause now,” the politician said.

In turn, in Russia, Western sanctions were called illegal. The head of the Russian Foreign Ministry noted that the sanctions "look like hysteria, somewhere like agony." According to him, these sanctions "have been prepared for a long time" and they "are unlikely to be lifted."

