---
title: "Turkey called two obstacles to the start of the export of grain from Ukraine by sea"
description: According to Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu, the resumption of sea imports of Ukrainian grain is hindered by mines planted by Ukraine off the coast of Odessa region and sanctions against Russia
date: 2022-05-31T16:44:39+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-31T16:44:39+03:00
images:
- FJTJPb1.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Ilya Naimushin / RIA Novosti'
authors:
- Denis Voroshilov
categories:
- politics
tags:
- special operation
- corn
- wheat
- Ukraine
- supplies
- Black Sea
- Turkey
- Mevlut Cavusoglu
stories:
- Military operation in Ukraine
---

Ukrainian mines off the coast of the Odessa region and sanctions on insurance and services for Russian ships in foreign ports are the main obstacles to the resumption of grain supplies from Ukraine through the Black Sea. This [was stated](https://www.aa.com.tr/tr/gundem/disisleri-bakani-cavusoglu-karadenizde-guvenlik-koridoru-acilmasini-gorusmek-uzere-lavrov-8-haziranda-gelecek/2601669) by Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu in an interview with Anadolu agency.

“Ukraine does not want Russian warships to call at the ports of Odessa. Russia also does not want the ships that will carry cargo along this corridor to deliver weapons to Ukraine. How can they be sure of all this? There should be a verification mechanism,” the minister said.

According to him, from a technical point of view, it is possible to clear mines at sea in one or two weeks, and Turkey has already begun work on discussing a way out of this situation. The minister also said that "Russia and Ukraine have agreed on this issue, in principle," but the details of further work are yet to be discussed.

Cavusoglu said that Turkey contributes to building trust between Ukraine and Russia and cooperates with the UN. “The UN has a proposal to create a quadripartite contact group with the participation of the United Nations, Turkey, Russia and Ukraine. We agreed to this in principle. Consultations are being held at the technical level, the idea of ​​implementation has appeared. But a full consensus has not yet been reached,” the minister said.

At the same time, he said that Turkey complies with all sanctions and will not allow them to be bypassed by any of the countries. At the same time, he noted that Turkey has assumed obligations to ensure the security of maritime supplies. “We have an important role in ensuring the safety of navigation and the passage of ships carrying grain from ports,” the minister added.

French President Emmanuel Macron said he hoped a decision to resume grain supplies from Ukraine would be found in "the coming days or weeks" and also welcomed Turkey's efforts. “The EU and Turkey will make efforts to unblock the export of Ukrainian grain. <...> This grain, 20 million tons, should be sent to those countries that need it, as well as to food programs, ” he [said](https://youtu.be/U_dHVtCMWqo) at a press conference after the EU summit in Brussels.

Also, according to Macron, any contacts with Russia, including Turkey, on the issue of unblocking grain supplies should be welcomed.

Earlier, Kiev requested international guarantees to restore grain supplies from Ukraine, saying that unilateral Russian guarantees were not enough. The head of the Ukrainian Foreign Ministry, Dmitry Kuleba, said that his country does not object to the participation of the UN in solving this problem.

In turn, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said that Russia is ready to ensure the exit of ships from Ukrainian ports and their movement to their destinations as soon as Ukraine clears mines in coastal waters. He also stated that Western countries artificially created problems by closing their ports to Russian ships, destroying the logical and financial chains.

{{<info>}}

Russia and Ukraine are among the world's largest suppliers of wheat. In the 2021/22 season, the Russian side accounted for 16% of wheat exports in the world, the Ukrainian side - 10%, [follows](https://apps.fas.usda.gov/psdonline/circulars/oilseeds.pdf) from the data of the US Department of Agriculture. Since the start of Russia's military special operation in Ukraine, world leaders have repeatedly expressed fears about a potential shortage of food, and UN officials have also [spoken about this](https://www.fao.org/newsroom/detail/surging-food-prices-fao-calls-for-import-financing-facility-for-poorer-nations-at-g20-meeting/en).

{{</info>}}

In mid-March, the FSB announced that on the approaches to the ports of Odessa, Ochakov, Chernomorsk and Yuzhny, the Ukrainian Navy had placed 420 mines, which made navigation in the area and exits from the ports impossible.

The head of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen , accused Russia of using hunger and grain to gain influence in the world. In response, Russia's Permanent Representative to the UN Security Council, Vasily Nebenzya , said that the country opened a safe corridor for grain transportation in the Black Sea, but ships from the Ukrainian port in Odessa did not use it. “We are accused of not letting ships through, but we didn’t plant the mines,” he explained.

French President Emmanuel Macron warned of the risk of an "unprecedented" food crisis in the world due to events in Ukraine and the inability to export from this country. US President Joe Biden then agreed with his French counterpart and said that "food shortages will be real."

The United States and Canada offered to help in resuming the import of Ukrainian grain.